3jamie dimon,chairman and 
 chief executive o˛cer
the outstanding e˚orts of our 240,000 employees around the world enabled 
 our ˜rm to weather the worst economic storm in recent history and to emerge 
stronger than ever. and Š while we are proud of the many ways we rose to meet 

the untold challenges we faced Š we also are keenly aware of the ongoing 
 imperative to continually innovate and improve Š to get smarter, better, faster Š 
 in service to our clients. this is the only way we will be able to thrive going 
 forward and to overcome the challenges ahead. 
i™ve asked the chief executive of each of our lines of business to write you a letter 
about his or her respective business, both to review the 2010 results and to o˚er 

an outlook for the future. i hope as you read their letters in the section follow
-ing this letter that you get the same sense that i do: across your company, we 

have talented leaders and great opportunities; we are performing well ˜nancially 

against our competition; we are investing in our organic growth; and, perhaps 

most important, we are focused on building quality businesses.
4quality business, to us, means good clients; excellent products; constant innovation; 
state-of-the-art systems; and dedicated, capable, well-trained employees who care 
about the customers we serve. it means building consistently, not overreacting to 

short-term factors, and being trusted and respected by our clients in all the communi
-ties where we do business. in a risk-taking business, it is easy to generate increasingly 

better results in the short run by taking on excessive risk or by building lower quality 

business Š but you will pay for that in the long run. that is not what we are after.
in this letter, i will focus my comments on issues of great impact to our business:
i. the post-crisis environment: how we view the signi˜cant challenges ahead
ii. big opportunities: how we will grow in u.s. and international markets
iii. the customer experience: how we will continue to improve it
iv.
 global financial reform: how the key aspects will a˚ect our businesses 
 and our country
v.
 conclusion
stock and book value performance
stock total return analysis if you became a shareholder of the respective firms at december 31, 2000
  
bank one  
chase
   j.p. morgan
  
s&p 500 10-year performance:
 compounded annual gain
 7.0 % 2.5 % 2.7 % 1.4 % overall gain
 97.4  
28.1  
30.1  
15.1  bank one/jpmorgan chase tangible book value per share performance vs. s&p 500 (2001-2010)
  tangible book value per share 
    of bank one/jpmorgan chase with
 s&p 500 with relative results
  dividends included (a) dividends included (b) (a) Š (b)10-year performance:
 compounded annual gain
 13.6 % 1.4 % 12.2 % overall gain
 256.5  
15.1  
241.4 in addition to stock performance, we looked at tangible book value performance over the past 10 years. tangible 
 book value over time captures the company™s use of capital, balance sheet and pro˜tability. in this chart, we are looking 
at heritage bank one shareholders. the chart shows the increase in tangible book value per share; it is an after-tax 

number assuming all dividends were retained vs. the 
s&p 500 (a pretax number with dividends reinvested).  
this chart shows actual returns of the stock, with dividends included, for heritage shareholders of the company 
 vs. the 
standard & poor™s 500 index (s&p 500)
.5as we enter 2011, we ˜nd ourselves having 
weathered an epic storm Œ not just the global 
˜nancial crisis itself but its e˚ect on the 
global ˜nancial system and our industry. 

as a nation, we may have averted disaster 

thanks to a great collective e˚ort, but many 

challenges remain. a lot of work has been 

done Œ some of which has been excellent and 

necessary. other aspects are less satisfactory 

and even potentially harmful, and we need 

to face and ˜x them in a thorough, balanced, 

intelligent manner. su˛ce it to say that a 

good deal of work remains to be done. 
in our meetings with shareholders, we often 
are asked the following tough questions:

sovereign exposures and the geopolitical 










litigation around mortgages, municipali
-
ties, bear stearns, the bankruptcies of 








policies and looming ˜scal de˜cits a˚ect 
the long run to deal e˚ectively with other 

important problems it faces, including 

immigration, our energy policy, the 

environment, our education and health 

systems, our infrastructure and our still-





freely compete with increasingly formi
-
dable foreign banks, some of which are the 








charlie scharf deals with some of these 

questions in his letter later in this annual 

report. these issues are extremely complex 

and will take years to resolve. there is 

plenty of misinformation and a number 

of misconceptions around mortgages, and 

your company is going to make a dedicated 

e˚ort to describe in detail what we do, how 

we do it, what the right things to do are, 

what the mistakes we made are and how 

we will rectify them. i will not go into the 

details in this letter, but, rest assured, we 

are fully engaged on this issue of mort
-
gages, and you will be hearing more from 

us about it in the future.
in thinking about the answers to the ques
-
tions posed, it would be naive to be blindly 

and irrationally optimistic Œ or to be blindly 


the future with any real certainty, but we can 

o˚er our shareholders some insight into how 

we think about these issues, what they mean 

for the company and how we manage through 

them. remember, our goal is not to guess the 

future; our goal is to be prepared to thrive 

under widely variable conditions. 
we face the future in a strong position 
our businesses and management team are 
among the best in the industry. it is di˛
-
cult to replicate our franchises and the 

intelligence embedded in our expertise, in 

our systems and in the experience of our 

people. our fortress balance sheet provides 

us with strong and growing capital Œ and we 

always are thinking far ahead about the best 

ways to deploy it. 





fortitude to use our capital wisely. our ˜rst 

priority was to restore a decent dividend Œ 

this is what our shareholders wanted (if it 

were up to me personally, i would reinvest 
 i.
 the
 p
ost
-c
risis
 e
nvironment
: h
ow
 w
e v
iew
    the
 significant challenges ahead6all the capital into our company and not pay 
any dividend Œ but this is not what most 




completely clear about how we prioritize our 
use of capital. these priorities are:







growth Œ building great, long-term pro˜table 





for organic growth in each of our businesses.


add-ons and larger ones, but only if the 

price is right and we have a clear ability 

to manage the risks and execute properly. 

(if we are not running our own businesses 






-pline, we always will buy back the stock 




will buy back additional stock only when, 

looking forward, we see few opportunities 

to invest in organic growth and acquisi
-
tions. and we will buy back stock only 

when we believe it bene˜ts our remaining 

shareholders Œ not the ones who are selling 





opportunities in bad times. and, yes, we 

know we have made and will continue to 

make mistakes Œ all businesses do Œ but we 

hope to catch them early, ˜x them quickly 

and learn from them. 

intense competition everywhere we operate Œ 




brings Œ and it will bring both good and bad 

Œ we are prepared, and we expect to emerge 

among the leaders.
how we view european sovereign and 
geopolitical risk
great collective endeavors of all time Œ 
where participating countries are striving to 

form a permanent union of nations for the 

bene˜t of all their citizens. 
in the short run, i.e., in the next year or two, 








starts, will work through its problems. it 
has the will and wherewithal to do so. the 







devoted to making this work Œ as their 

predecessors were for the past 60 years. the 

process will be messy, but the consequence 

of giving up could be far worse: sovereign 

defaults could lead to a bank crisis with 

serious economic consequences. since it 

is the same money (if sovereign nations 

recapitalize its banks by approximately the 
without causing additional complications.
once the short-term issues are addressed, 
there likely will be some restructuring 

of the ˜scal and monetary agreements 

between the nations and possibly the 

restructuring of some of the nations™ debt. 
















able to achieve economic growth.

jpmorgan chase™s gross exposures to 

greece, ireland, portugal, spain and italy 

totaled approximately $40 billion Œ but net 

of collateral and hedges, our real exposures 






we reduced some of our exposures (essen
-
tially, the investment of excess cash for the 






associated with serving our clients, and we 

continued to actively conduct business in 

those nations. our position was clear and 

consistent: to be there for our clients, not 

just in good times, but in bad times as well. 
going forward, this mission will not change. 



to take them. for example, in the unlikely 
occurrence of extremely bad outcomes in all 

these countries, jpmorgan chase ultimately 
7could lose approximately $3 billion, after-tax. 
but we are in the business of taking risks in 
support of our clients and believe that this 

is a risk worth bearing since we hope to be 

growing our business in these countries for 

decades to come. 
our broader perspective on geopolitical 
uncertainty is that it is a constant state of 
a˚airs, which has been and always will be 

there, whether immediately visible or not. 

such uncertainty is one of the main reasons 

we control our credit exposures and main
-
tain extremely strong capital and liquidity 
 
at all times. 
before turning to the economic impact of the 


foremost, that the outcome of these historic 
movements will be to enhance the life and 

rights of the people in the region. for our company, in particular, our direct 
exposures are manageable. the key economic 

impact is if extreme turmoil leads to extraordi
-narily high oil prices, which then could cause 

a global recession. as you know, however, we 

always run this company to be prepared to 

deal with the e˚ects of a global recession.how we view our legal exposures



issues Œ the detritus of the storm Œ for years 

to come. they range from mortgage-related 

litigation to lawsuits concerning bear stearns 

brothers and others. 

we will ˜ght mightily to ensure a just 





some of the legal challenges we face stem 

from our acquisitions of bear stearns and 



˜rms, there would be no lawsuits because 

there would be no money to pay Œ our deep 

pockets are an attractive target to plainti˚s. 

the world™s best, it also is one of the only 

legal systems that does not require the losing 
party to pay the winning party™s legal costs. 

large actions against big companies, whether 

justi˜ed or not, have the potential to deliver 

large payo˚s. this lack of balance and fair
-ness too often results in outrageous claims. 



shareholders should know that we have set 

aside signi˜cant reserves to handle many of 

these exposures.
how we view the american economy Š 
short term and long term
five years ago, very few people seemed to 
worry about outsized risk, black swans and 

fat tails. today, people see a black swan with 

a fat tail behind every rock. 



for the foreseeable future the mightiest 

economic machine on this planet. america 

is home to many of the best universities and 

companies in the world. it still is one of the 

greatest innovators. the volume and varia
-
tion of our inventions created in america 

are extraordinary Œ from bold new technolo
-
gies, like the internet, to thousands of small, 

incremental improvements in processes and 

products that, in aggregate, dramatically 

improve productivity. america also has an 

exceptional legal system (notwithstanding 

my many reservations about the class-action 
capital markets. the american people have 

a great work ethic, from farmers and factory 

workers to engineers and businessmen (even 

entrepreneurial population on earth. amer
-ican ingenuity is alive and well.
i mention all this because we need to put 
our current problems Œ and they are real 

Œ into proper context. our problems may 

be daunting, but they also are resolvable. 

as a nation, we have overcome far worse 





current challenges, we have begun to see 

clear signs of stability and growth returning 


almost everything is better than it was a 

year or two ago.
it™s conceivable that we are at the begin
-ning of a self-sustaining recovery that could 

power through many of the negatives we™ve 
8been focusing on recently. consumers are 
getting stronger, spending at levels similar to 
those two-and-a-half years ago, but, instead of 

spending more than their income, they now 

are saving 5% of their income. and consumer 

debt service costs, i.e., how much they spend 

of their income to service their debt, have 

returned to levels seen in the 1990s (due to 

debt repayment, charge-o˚s and debt forgive
-



businesses, large and small, are getting 

stronger. large companies have plenty of 

cash. medium sized and small businesses are 
in better ˜nancial condition and are starting 
to borrow again. global trade is growing Œ 




seems to have begun. financial markets are 

wide open Œ and banks are lending more 


investing more than $2 trillion a year in 

capital expenditures and research and devel
-
opment. they have the ability to do more, 

and, at the end of the day, the growth in the 

economy ultimately is driven by increased 

capital investment.
the biggest negative that people point 
to is that home prices are continuing to 

decline, new home sales are at record lows 

and foreclosures are on the rise. our data 

indicates that the rate of foreclosures will 

start to come down later this year. approxi
-
mately 30% of the homes in america do 

not have mortgages Œ and of those that do, 

approximately 90% of mortgage-holding 

homeowners are paying their loans on time. 








million a year, and those people eventually 

will need housing. additionally, the fact 

that fewer homes are being built means that 

supply and demand will come into balance 

sooner than it otherwise would have. that 

said, housing prices likely will continue to 

go down modestly because of the contin-
uous high levels of homes for sale. the ulti
-
mate recovery of the housing market and 

housing prices likely will follow job growth 

and a general recovery in the economy. 
yes, america still is facing headwinds and 

uncertainties Œ including abnormal monetary 

policy and looming ˜scal de˜cits. and while 

we can™t really predict what the economy will 

do in the next year or two (though we think 

the world™s greatest economy will regain its 

footing and grow over the ensuing decade. 
but we must take serious action to ensure our 
success in the decades ahead 






 is high, for america to thrive after that, 
 it soon must confront some of the serious 








e˚orts to develop an immigration policy 
and a real, sustainable energy policy; 

protect our environment; improve our 

education and health systems; rebuild 
 our infrastructure for the future; and ˜nd 
 solutions for our still-unbalanced trade 
 and capital ˝ows. 
the sooner we address these issues, the 
better Œ america does not have a divine 

right to success, and it can™t rely on wishful 

thinking and its great heritage alone to 
get the country where it needs to go. but 

i remain, perhaps naively, optimistic. as 



always count on americans to do the right 

thing Œ after they™ve tried everything else.ﬂ 
will the role of banks change in this new 
environment?
banks serve a critical function in society, 
but it often is di˛cult to describe that func-


ghana with one of our daughters (yes, the 

same daughter who asked me what a ˜nan
-

out all the buildings and projects that had 
been started but never ˜nished. 
all the money that went into ghana™s 
un˜nished buildings was needlessly wasted 

and, in fact, had damaged the citizens of 

the country. this sorry sight provided me 

with a concrete example of how to describe 

what banks actually should do. i explained 

to our daughter that had banks (or inves
-



made sure that before money was invested 

in a project or enterprise, it had good pros
-
pects of success: it would be built for good 
9reasons, it would be appropriately utilized, it 
would be properly constructed, it would be 
insured and, if something went wrong, the 

asset would be put to the best possible use 

afterward. at the microlevel of one building 

or one small business, it is easy to under
-stand what banks do. they lend or invest, 

having done their homework, to maximize 

the chance of success. sometimes they are 

wrong, and unforeseen circumstances can 

derail that success, but if they do their job 

well, this lending improves the general 

health of an economy.
at the macrolevel, we talk about having lent, 
invested or raised approximately $1.6 trillion 

for companies, not-for-pro˜ts and individuals 

over the course of 2010. but at the human 

level, here™s some of what we did last year:



people. 


11 million people. 

small businesses. 



government entities, including states, 

municipalities, hospitals and universities.






to approximately 6,500 middle market 

companies. 


8,500 corporations.



lending, and sometimes we make mistakes. 

but i can assure you that this never is our 

140 countries around the world. to ensure 

that we do it right and comply with the 

laws of the land, we have risk committees, 

credit committees, underwriting committees, 

compliance and legal reviews, and more. 
banks play a critical role in our economic 
system by properly allocating, underwriting 

and understanding risk as credit is given to 

various entities and by helping to manage, 

move and invest capital for clients. the 

key question is how will all the regulatory 

what will not change: clients still will need 
 our services
from the point of view of the customer Œ 
always the best way to look at a business Œ 

the services we o˚er, which are not easy to 


markets, technology and trends will change, 

but we know companies and consumers still 

will need the ˜nancial services we provide.

branches, they still will need checking and 

savings accounts, mortgages, investments, 

and credit and debit cards.







branches, they still will need cash manage
-
ment services, loans and investment advice.

-nies are called upon by our bankers, they 

still will need cash management, loans, trade 

˜nance and investment advice. some even 

may require derivatives or foreign exchange 

services to help manage their exposures.
finally, when large companies work with our 
bankers, they will continue to need merger 

and acquisition or other ˜nancial advice 

and access to the global equity and debt 
markets. given the increasing complexity of 

their business, they also will require deriva
-
tives to help manage various exposures, e.g., 

the changing prices of interest rates, foreign 

currencies and commodities.
in fact, the opportunities are large. a growing 
world still will need large-scale capital 

creation and bank lending and will increas-
ingly require ˜nancial services. several factors 

underscore just how pressing these capital-
intensive needs will be in the future:


approximately $100 trillion over the next 

10 years across both emerging markets and 

developed nations, an 80% increase. 












wealth could grow by approximately $160 tril
-
lion over the next 10 years, a 100% increase.



by more than $30 trillion over the next 10 


10

to grow by approximately $50 trillion in 
nominal terms ($25 trillion in real 2010 



an approximately 80% increase. 


equipment (globally running at approxi
-
double over the next 10 years Œ our multi
-
national clients account for approximately 

50% of this.


demand requires strong, healthy ˜nancial 

institutions. this bodes well for jpmorgan 

chase Œ we are in exactly the right place.
what will not change: banks will continue to need 
to earn adequate market-demanded returns on 

capital
like all businesses, banks must continue 
to earn adequate returns on capital Œ inves
-tors demand it. some argue, however, that if 

regulation results in better capitalized banks 

and a more stable ˜nancial system, returns 

demanded on capital would be lower to re˝ect 

the lower risk involved. this probably is true 

but not likely to be materially signi˜cant. 
what will change: new regulation 
will a˜ect prod
-ucts and their pricing 
a likely outcome of the new regulations is 
that products and their pricing will change. 

some products will go away, some will be 

redesigned and some will be repriced. last year, we spoke about how we would 
adjust our products and services for the new 

credit card pricing rules and new overdraft 

rules. so i will not repeat them here. in a 

later section, i will talk about how we will 

adjust to the new restrictions on the pricing 
of debit cards.
are required under basel iii likely will a˚ect 

the pricing of many products and services. 
two examples come to mind:
current basel iii rules require banks to hold more capital and maintain more liquidity to 
support the revolving credit they provide to 

both middle market and large institutions. in 

some cases, the liquidity rules alone require 

us to hold 100% of highly liquid assets to 
support a revolver. for example, to support a 

$100 million revolver, we would be required 

to own $100 million of highly liquid securi-


this would increase our incremental cost on 

a three-year revolver by approximately 60 

basis points a year. that leaves us with three 



make the loan. in the real world, the likely 

outcome is that some borrowers will have 

less or no access to credit, some borrowers 

will pay a lot more for credit, some would 

pay only a little bit more and some highly 

rated companies might ˜nd it cheaper to 

provide liquidity on their own, i.e., hold 

more excess cash on their balance sheet 

as opposed to relying on banks for credit 

liquidity backup. 
certain products may disappear completely 
because they simply are too expensive to 






on certain securitizations will be so high 
for banks that either these transactions no 

longer will be done or they will migrate to 

other credit intermediaries (think hedge 

i will have more to say on regulation in the 

fourth section of this letter.
what we don™t know (and we have a healthy fear 
of unintended consequences)
around the world and all at once, policy
-makers and regulators are making countless 

changes, from guidelines around market-

making, derivatives rules, capital and liquidity 

standards, and more. many of the rules have 

yet to be de˜ned in detail, and it is likely 

that they will not be applied evenly around 

the world. the combined impact of so much 

change Œ so much unknown about the inter
-play among all these factors and an uneven 
11global playing ˜eld Œ potentially is large. 
these unpredictable outcomes and unin-tended consequences could a˚ect far more 

than products and pricing. for example, if a 

business cannot sell certain products or if the 

cost of selling them is so high that it cannot 

be adequately recouped, that business risks 

losing all of its clients. a simple analogy: if a 

restaurant that sells burgers can™t sell french 

fries, it risks losing all of its customers.
like it or not, we will adjust to the impact 
of new regulation on ˜nancial products and 
pricing. but we will remain vigilant about 

the changes that could threaten or under
-mine entire businesses. three of our main 

concerns are: first, and most important, we want to ensure 
that our clients are not negatively a˚ected in 

a material way and that our ability to prop
-
erly serve them is not unduly compromised. 
second, we need to be cautious about the 
creation of non-banks or new shadow banks. 

this could happen if the cumulative e˚ect of 

all the regulations not only hampers banks 
from conducting their business but restricts 
them so much that the business slowly and 

inevitably moves to non-banks. 
and, third, we need to ensure that american 
banks are not signi˜cantly disadvantaged 

relative to their global counterparts. the 

cumulative e˚ect of higher capital standards, 

too restrictive market-making and deriva
-
tives rules, price control and arbitrary bank 

taxes could signi˜cantly impede our ability 
to compete over the long run. 



to occur Œ nor do we believe that it was or is 

the intent of the lawmakers or regulators Œ 

but it bears paying close attention.
although we tend to focus on the downside 
of unintended consequences, we should 

recognize that there may be some positive 

consequences. for example, large changes 

in business regulations and dynamics often 

lead to new businesses, innovations and new 

products. also, our ability to compete may 

be hampered in some instances but actu-
ally helped in others. for example, the cost 

and complexity of all the recent regulations, 

ironically, could create greater barriers for 

new entrants and new competitors. 
12
compelling growth strategies for his or her 
respective business (see their letters on 
the ˜rm, the opportunities to grow organi
-
cally are huge. and we intend to pursue 

them aggressively Œ every day, every quarter 

and every year by building new branches; 

launching new products and tools and intro
-
ducing new technology; and relentlessly 

hiring and developing good people.

organically can be challenging to execute, 

but it is critical Œ and the potential payo˚ is 

enormous. organic growth also will continue 

to fuel cross line-of-business opportunities. 

for example, when retail financial services 

opens a branch, it provides card services 

with the opportunity to o˚er more credit 
cards. and when commercial banking 

develops a new client relationship, these 

clients often require investment banking 

services. these are just two examples Œ there 

are many more. 






 to highlight a few speci˜c initiatives Œ each 

of which could add $500 million or more 
 to pro˜ts over the next ˜ve to ten years. 

these include:

business banking™s growth in the heritage 







will have added more than 1,500 bankers in 






building into this branch network the same 

kind of middle market banking and small 

business banking that we have established 

in other markets across the country. 


in our commodities business, we now have 

a full array of physical trading and ˜nan
-
cial products and services to support our 
3,000 clients who trade in these markets 


completely integrated and are running at 
full capacity, pro˜ts of this business will 

grow even more strongly. (and this should 





-


new branches a year to more than 200 in 

2011 and probably more than that in subse-
quent years. this aggressive build-out is a 

coordinated e˚ort between our real estate 

teams; our technology and operations 

teams; and our management, development 

and training sta˚. new branches typically 

break even by the end of the second year, 

and, when fully established, which takes 

several more years, each branch ultimately 

should earn more than $1 million in 
pro˜ts a year. yes, we are concerned about 

technology reducing the need for physical 

branches, but all our research shows that 

we still will need branches to serve our 

atms has skyrocketed, branch tra˛c 

essentially has remained steady. over time, 

branches may become smaller, but we still 

think they will remain essential.




2 million customers who use our branches 

are fairly a˙uent and need investment 

services tailored to the high-net-worth 


it seems to be working well. therefore, we 

intend to open approximately 150 private 

client services locations over the next few 

years to better support our a˙uent clients. 

at these o˛ces, dedicated bankers will 

work with customers and provide them 

with investment products that are tailored 

to their needs.


wholesale businesses, including our global 

described in the next section. 
 ii. big opportunities: how we will grow in 
   
u.s. and international markets 
13our resolute commitment to expanding 
our international wholesale businesses 
one of the greatest opportunities before us 
is to grow our wholesale businesses globally. 

this opportunity exists not just in developed 

markets but also in developing, emerging 


the reasons are simple: as the world grows, 

our clients generally grow even faster, as do 

trade volumes, capital, cross-border investing 

and global wealth. 


global investment, with accompanying 

growth in credit and capital needs, will grow 

by two times or some $13 trillion over the 

next 20 years in real terms Œ a multiple of 

what we saw in the early 1980s. global invest
-
ment will amount to $24 trillion in 2030 

compared with $11 trillion in recent years. 

developing economies are embarking on 

one of the biggest building booms in history. 

rapid urbanization is increasing demand 

for new roads and other public infrastruc
-
ture. companies are building new plants and 


in fact, warns of potential capital and credit 

shortages as this exponential growth occurs. 
banks will play a vital role in ˜nancing these 
investments and in connecting savers and 

borrowers around the world. much of this 

capital and investing will be cross-border and 

will be done by the very institutions that our 

bank already serves, i.e., multinational corpo
-
rations, large investors, sovereign wealth 

funds and others. 
rest assured, we are going about this e˚ort 



false notions that it is easy or risk free. and 
you cannot have stop-and-start strategies. 

countries will want to know you are there 

for the long run Œ you cannot be a fair-

weather friend! 
international expansion is a long, tough 

requires lengthy lead times, and di˚erences 
in cultures and laws present many chal
-
lenges. by necessity, we end up bearing 

additional sovereign and political risk. but 

the e˚ort clearly is worth it: the opportuni
-
ties are great, and the risk can be managed. 




we essentially are following our customers 
around the world
our wholesale bankers around the world do 
business with essentially most of the global 
fortune 2000 plus some 400 of large sover
-eign wealth funds and public or quasi-public 

entities (these include governments, central 

banks, government pension plans and 

as these entities expand globally Œ adding coun
-tries and locations to where these organizations 

do business Œ we essentially grow with them. 







need to be where they are going to need us. 
we will grow by adding bankers, branches 
 and products 
the overwhelming majority of our worldwide 
expansion will come through organic growth Œ 

adding bankers, branches and products. 
 some examples of our recent e˚orts include:


january 1, 2010, and, by the end of 2012, 

we expect to grow to 300 bankers covering 

more than 3,000 clients globally.







to enhance the ˜rm™s presence by adding 

bankers and increasing our client coverage. 

five years ago, we covered approximately 

200 clients in those countries, and, today, 














of coverage in many other countries, too.











to our existing three (shanghai, tianjin and 


-sion with more branch openings planned 

for 2011. our expanded footprint enhances 

our ability to serve both local companies 

and foreign multinationals as they grow 

their businesses in china. in addition to the 

domestic renminbi capabilities, j.p. morgan is 

at the forefront of the internationalization of 

the renminbi, a product that more and more 

clients are demanding for cross-border trade.



branches in australia, bangladesh, brazil, 

china, great britain, japan, the nether
-




nearly 20 more to be added by 2013.
14this build-out of our additional locations 
results in a huge network e˚ect. for 
example, chinese capital is moving into 

brazil Œ and we already are on the ground in 


-bilities in africa, we also are improving our 







looking at investing in africa.
alongside these expansion e˚orts, we are 
adding many products. for example:







local credit Œ by establishing capital lines for 

subsidiaries of multinational companies and 

providing credit to large local companies. 

-ticated supply chain ˜nance products 

(we recently helped ˜nance caterpillar™s 

of course, we also are building the proper 

systems, legal teams and operational capabili
-ties to support this bigger network. 
in addition to these organic e˚orts, we are 
on the lookout for smaller acquisitions that 

can help us accelerate our strategy. for 

example, our acquisition of the world-class 

brazilian hedge fund gávea investimentos, 

-cally improves our ability to manage money 

both for local investors and for those around 

the world seeking to invest in brazil and 

emerging markets. 
we see global growth opportunities for decades 
to come
in the business community and across the media, we have seen a tremendous focus on 

the emerging markets in advanced stages 

of development; speci˜cally, brazil, russia, 

india and china. but this opportunity also 
is large in countries like turkey, indonesia, 

malaysia and many others Œ in fact, some 

parts of the world are on the brink of mean
-
ingful development. 
a quick look at sub-saharan africa provides 
a bit of perspective on the opportunities 




activity in the region is expected to grow 




20 years, from $800 billion to $2 trillion, as its 

many nations in sub-saharan africa are 

adopting better and stronger governance, 

and they are forti˜ed by great natural and 

other resources, which will bene˜t their 

future prosperity.

multinational clients are doing business in 
sub-saharan africa and expect their number 

and footprint to grow steadily over the next 


21 of the 49 sub-saharan nations, we are on 

the ground only in south africa and nigeria. 



several other african countries over the next 

couple of decades. the investments we make 

over the years to enter sub-saharan africa 

will not materially a˚ect pro˜ts in the short 
run but will produce a real payo˚ in decades 



to be reaped by future generations.
while developing consumer and 
commercial banking operations abroad is 

an option, it is not a strategic imperative
over the long term, expanding our consumer 
and commercial banking footprint outside 


this aspiration is a strategic option Œ not 

a necessity. some businesses need to be 

competitive internationally to be successful 

Œ think investment banking, commercial 

aircraft and mobile device manufacturers. 

but some businesses do not need to be Œ 



in retail and commercial banking and never 

take them internationally. therefore, this 

aspiration is a strategic option, not a stra
-
tegic imperative, to be carried out only if and 

when it makes sense.
international acquisitions are riskier than 

-tunities for cost savings, terms for investing 
vary from country to country, there is higher 

legal and cultural risk, and execution is more 

di˛cult. therefore, we will acquire these 

businesses internationally only if we can do 

it right, which means the price needs to be 

right, we need to have an adequate margin 

for error and we have to have the ability to 

execute properly.
15 the wamu acquisition: a bit worse than expected but clearly still worth it 
with more than two years™ perspective, i™d like to 
take a look back at how we did with the acquisition 

of washington mutual Š particularly relative to how 

we thought the deal would play out at the time of 

the acquisition.
wamu™s ongoing operating earnings were 
 approximately what we expected Š but not in 
 
the way we expected
when we completed the wamu acquisition on 
september 25, 2008, we thought it was ˜nancially 

compelling and immediately accretive to earn
-
ings, though clearly not without risk. we acquired 

wamu™s 2,200 branches, 5,000 atms and 12.6 

million checking accounts, as well as savings, 

mortgage and credit card accounts. at that time, 

we estimated that it would add $3 billion to 2010 

net income. 
  the chart above shows what we said would happen 

over time vs. what actually happened. these 

numbers do not include one-time gains or losses, 

which i describe in the following paragraph. in 

the numbers above, the mortgage origination and 

servicing business did better than expected, mostly 

due to higher volumes and spreads. and the retail 

business did signi˜cantly worse, mostly due to 

curtailing fees on nonsu˛cient funds and over
-drafts. we expect the business to perform in the 

future as we originally thought. 
one-time, after-tax gains and losses are a 
 
negative and still could get slightly worse
 when we acquired wamu, we acquired approxi
-
mately $240 billion of mortgage and credit card 

loans, which we immediately wrote down by $30 

billion. we knew when we did the transaction that 

the depth and severity of the recession in the 

housing market could drive mortgage losses even 

higher than our estimates (which, at the time, we 

thought were conservative). we thought losses 

could wind up being $10 billion worse (pretax), and 

we have experienced about half of that. we antici
-
pate some further potential downside, depending 

on the health of the u.s. economy, as well as some 

other one-time gains and losses relating to litiga
-
tion and other unresolved matters. the heritage 

wamu credit card business essentially is liquidating 

with approximately the results we expected.
the wamu acquisition has created future 
 opportunities that we would not have had if 
 
we did not do this acquisition Š and these are 

better than we anticipated 
the expansion of our middle market commercial 
banking business, within the wamu footprint, 

which we are managing and growing carefully, can 

deliver more than $500 million in pretax pro˜ts 

annually, though this could take more than ˜ve 

years. and the commercial term lending busi
-
ness, which essentially is making mortgage loans 

on multifamily houses Š a business we previously 

didn™t know very well Š also will be able to grow 

its earnings to more than $500 million a year Š 

signi˜cantly better than we expected. we think the 

small business banking opportunity is even larger 

than we thought and could be as much as $1 billion 

pretax annually over the long term.
one-time items (after-tax) 
 







operating earnings, 
excluding one-time items 
 (in billions) initial  expectations
 actual
2009 $2.4 $2.82010 3.0 2.72011 3.4 3.1 * 1516 iii.
 the customer experience: 
   
how we will continue to improve it 


Œ and this is true of every aspect of our busi
-





account we maintain, every ˜nancing we 
do and any investing we do is to serve our 

clients. our job is to consistently strive to do 

a better job for all our clients Œ and to do it 

faster, smarter and better. 
doing a great job for our clients requires 
us to be discerning about who our clients 
are and clear about what doing a good job 
means. in our business in particular, client 

-nesses, we often have to turn away clients. 

sometimes we, by necessity, are put in the 

uncomfortable position of advising or even 

requiring our clients to do things they don™t 

want to do, such as: restructuring or selling 

assets or making payments to avoid penal
-
ties. careful client selection leads to quality 

clients. and in conjunction with conservative 

accounting, it leads to a high-quality busi
-
ness. j.p. morgan, jr., said it best when he 


class business in a ˜rst-class way.ﬂ
below are some of the ways we will strive to 
continue delivering on that promise.
doing a better job serving complex global 
corporate clients


our complex global corporate clients. but we 
want to do an even better job Œ a great job 

Œ under all circumstances. so we are redou
-
bling our e˚orts by:



building robust systems to put key infor
-mation about our corporate client relation-
ships at our ˜ngertips Œ for example, all the 

services we provide them, which markets 

they are in and what their needs are. 


information and coordination enable us to 

do a better Œ and, often, more cost-e˚ective 

Œ job for the client. as a global ˜nancial 

institution, we may have 30 to 40 bankers 

from our o˛ces globally calling on a large 

corporate client. that™s because we provide 

such a broad set of products and services in 

multiple locations around the world: m&a 

and advisory services; asset management; 

sales and trading or pension plans; manage-
ment of cash ˝ows, foreign exchange and 

interest rate exposure; and more.



-atically expanding the depth and breadth 

of our international coverage of the large, 

multinational companies that we cover 


granular, detailed review, name by name 

and subsidiary by subsidiary, of the multi
-
national companies we support for the 

purpose of developing a game plan Œ from 

the ground up Œ for how we will build out 

our coverage going forward.









clients, we want to make available the best 

that jpmorgan chase has to o˚er every
-







the full force and power of the company are 

behind them and their goals, that we will be 

there in good times and bad, and that our 

advice is uncon˝icted and trustworthy.




business works only if it works for the 

client, not just for jpmorgan chase. cross-

selling, for example, is good only when it 

bene˜ts the client.17doing a better job serving consumers and 
small business customers
all businesses claim to focus on better 
serving their clients. most can show you the 

service metrics by which they judge them
-


than that by taking a step back and looking 

at the customer experience holistically Œ from 

every angle, including:


as ours, often we ˜nd ourselves adding 

more features and complexity without 

going back to see how it looks from the 




the example set by companies like apple, 

which always aims to make its products 

and services as simple and intuitive as 

possible for the customer. 
 for example, at one point, our customers 
were getting noti˜cations from us in the 

mail and by phone. then we innovated 

the process by reaching out to them in 

real time through text alerts whenever 

their account balance fell below a speci˜ed 
could not respond to these alerts. then 

we developed chase instant action 

alertssm, our two-way text alerts that allow 
customers to send a text back to us in order 

to transfer money between accounts and 

help avoid overdraft fees. this product has 


more than 10 million mobile customers, 

and we are adding over 500,000 new 

mobile banking customers each month. 

selling is to better and more completely 
serve customers™ needs and help them 

realize their goals in ways that save them 

time, money and aggravation. properly 

done, what we sell our customers should be 

good for them because we are listening to 

them, ˜guring out their needs, and trying 

to meet those needs in the most e˛cient 
and e˚ective manner possible. getting 

customers into the right accounts, the right 

credit cards, online bill payment and alert 

systems allows us to give our customers 

more and be more e˛cient. but selling and 
cross-selling must work for the customer Œ 

improperly done, these e˚orts are annoy
-
ances and, at worst, do customers a great 
disservice. to do this right, we need to 

educate our salespeople and constantly try 
to align our incentive systems to support 

doing what is right for the customer. 



consumer businesses, we™ve created 

consumer practice groups, managed by 




to review all our policies, products and 

procedures Œ ranging from pricing and fee 

decisions to clear disclosure and trans-
parency of terms associated with each 

product Œ and to ensure we are treating our 

customers fairly and are delivering great 

service. these consumer practice teams 

have the power both to right a wrong for 

any of our customers and to help change 

processes going forward.




possible and not get caught up in legalese in 

our communications. (of course, we need to 

provide the proper legal disclosures, many 






-ments require changes to our systems, both 

those that are visible to our customers and 
those that are helpful to our employees 




improved customer convenience on 

everyday needs such as completing the 

rollout of over 10,000 deposit friendly 

atms, which take cash and check deposits 

without deposit slips or envelopes. addi
-
tionally, the system our bankers use has 

been enhanced to quickly access a custom
-
er™s account history, including any issues 

reported by customers or actions taken on 

the customer™s behalf by branch employees 

in the last 90 days. 



redoubling our e˚orts to learn from 

customer complaints and employee 

ideas. customer complaints often can be 

gifts: they frequently tell us how we can 

improve our products and services. as for 

employees, they often have great ideas on 

what can be done better but usually aren™t 


customers and employees to improve prod
-
ucts and services across the ˜rm. 18innovating for our customers 
financial services have been highly innovative 
over the past 20 years. 
on the consumer side, we have seen atms 
and debit cards lead the way to online bill 
paying and other internet-enabled technolo
-gies. we also are particularly proud of our 
most recent consumer innovations, including: 

chase blueprintsm, a ˜exible payment tool 
that allows our card customers to better manage expenses on their own terms; 
inksm from chase for business card users; 
and chase sapphiresm and palladium
 for 
the a˚uent market. 

chase quickdeposit
sm iphone banking 
application allows customers to deposit 
checks simply by taking a picture from 
their iphones. this app was the winner of 
nine best of 2010 smartphone awards. in 
2010, 336,000 customers made deposits 
via quickdeposit, and 46,000 business 
customers made deposits with our classic quickdeposit scanner. we also recently 
have added the quickdeposit app to 
android phones.






customers to make payments in a variety 
of ways, including quick pay for electronic 
person-to-person payments and traditional 
online bill payments. in 2010, 16.3 million 
customers made 445 million payments 
using chase.com.





clients, we launched an ipad application 
that lets customers see, in one place, their 
credit card, checking and investment 
accounts. soon these clients will be able 
 to buy and sell securities online through 
this application.in wholesale banking, innovation has been 
equally apparent over time: 






move it with the ˜ick of a ˛nger to where it 
can be most productive. 






research ipad app, which gives clients 
reports and analysis from more than 1,000 
analysts on economic indicators, markets, 
companies and asset classes around the 
world. unlike other research apps of its 
kind, users will be able to access content 
o˚ine and receive instant alerts when new 
content they pre-select becomes available.


money quickly and often simultaneously in 
markets around the world.



quickly and cost-e˝ectively, large expo
-sures like interest rates, foreign exchange, 
commodity prices, credit exposures, etc. 

-ally instantaneously on markets around the 
world, at a cost of pennies or less a share.
acknowledging and fixing mistakes
unfortunately, we make mistakes. they 
range from innocuous errors to some egre-gious ones. they range from paperwork 
errors to systems failures to rude service. 
sometimes we make loans we shouldn™t 
make, and sometimes we don™t make loans 
that we should. some of these are individual 
mistakes, and some are more systemic. 
there always are reasons for these mistakes. 
sometimes they are readily understand
-able. other times, they leave you shaking 
your head. but we never should make these 
mistakes deliberately or with venal intent. 
some mistakes are made out of a simple 
misjudgment. and, unfortunately, and very 
infrequently Œ sometimes someone in our company knowingly does something wrong. 
of course, such activity would never, ever be 
condoned or permitted by senior manage
-ment. and when it does happen, we take 
immediate and ˛rm action. we know that when we make mistakes, we 
should hold ourselves accountable, and we 
should rectify them. 19

dealing with our mistakes:
senior management should actively be on the 
lookout for problems
at all times, senior management must be 
vigilant about errors made across the ˜rm 
Œ we ask lots of questions, read customer 

complaints, and make sure our own people 

are allowed to question our products and 

services. generally, we all know how we 

would want to be treated, and management 

should strive to treat our customers this way.
this particularly applies to long-standing practices. just because something always has 

been done a certain way does not mean that 

it is still right. we need to acknowledge mistakes to ourselves 



acknowledging an error, however, isn™t 






desire to keep up with the competition, did 

we start doing things with which we were 


there is one error, in particular, from our 
recent past that i would like to highlight: the 

mistakes we made in servicing mortgages 



a great history of honoring our military and 
veterans, and the errors we made on these 

loans, including foreclosures, were a painful 


regret this, we have apologized to our mili
-
tary customers and their families, and we 

have tried to rectify these mistakes as best 

we can. i want to reiterate that apology here 

and now. 


for the military and veteran community that 

includes many initiatives, from recruiting 

veterans into our ˜rm, with our corporate 

partners, to providing enhanced products 

and services for the military and their fami
-
lies. as a company, we aim to serve members 

of our armed services with the respect and 
special bene˜ts they deserve because we 

recognize the sacri˜ce and hardships they 

bear to protect our nation and our freedoms.
we should acknowledge our mistakes to our 
customers
customers know that any company can 



company denies it. if we make a mistake 
with a customer, we should acknowledge it 

and take the proper remedial action.
when we ˚nd mistakes, we should fully disclose 
them to those who should know




them, as appropriate, to our regulators and to 
our board of directors as appropriate. 
we also take appropriate and timely action with 
those involved
this can mean ˜xing an error-prone 
system, retraining our people, or modi
-

this sometimes means ˜ring an individual 

or replacing management, but only if such 

action is warranted due to bad behavior or 

real incompetence.
20 iv.
 global financial reform: how the key aspects 
   
will affect our businesses and our country 
the crisis of the last few years was 
 proof enough that many aspects of our 
 
˜nancial system needed to be ˜xed and 
reformed to minimize the chance of such 
 
a crisis reoccurring.
as i have discussed in prior letters, a multi
-tude of issues caused, or contributed to, this 

crisis: structural issues, such as a critical lack 

of liquidity in some of our country™s money 

market funds and in short-term ˜nancing 

markets; high leverage, which was omni
-
present in the system; unregulated shadow 
banking; poor mortgage underwriting; huge 

trade imbalances; and ine˚ective regula
-
tion of fannie mae and freddie mac, among 

other factors.
a great number of the regulatory changes 
adopted in 2010 were essential. foremost 

among them were higher capital and 

liquidity standards and the establishment of 
a financial stability oversight council. this 

body has the critical mandate of monitoring 

the ˜nancial system in its entirety, elimi
-
nating gaps and ensuring that all ˜nancial 

˜rms are properly regulated while antici-
pating future problems. resolution authority 

also was necessary in order to give regulators 

both the legal authority and the capability 

to manage and unwind large ˜nancial ˜rms, 

just as the federal deposit insurance corpo
-



testing and well-managed clearinghouses for 

standard derivatives. 
in addition, we have been very supportive 
of certain changes in compensation rules. 

in fact, long before they were mandated, 

jpmorgan chase already had instituted most 

of these compensation practices. one particu
-larly good new rule, a practice we had estab
-
lished but only for our operating committee, 

was the ability to clawback compensation 

from senior executives when appropriate. 




to cover more senior managers at our ˜rm. 

before the crisis, many senior executives who 

ultimately were responsible for the failure 

of their companies would have had to return 

much of their ill-gotten gains.




reform and consumer protection act, 

however, we do have some concerns. the 

extensive reforms introduced by this legisla
-
tion represent the most wide-ranging changes 







services since the 1930s, and we likely will 

have to live with these reforms for the next 50 

years. dodd-frank is a signi˜cant and thor
-ough rewrite of the rules that our industry 

must follow. the impact of this legislation will 

be signi˜cant, and the outcomes Œ both posi
-
tive and negative Œ will be a function of how 

the reforms are implemented.
it is of vital importance that dodd-frank 
implementation Œ along with the ˜naliza-
tion of basel committee capital standards 
and other regulatory changes a˚ecting our 

industry Œ is thoughtful and proportionate 
and takes into account the cumulative e˚ect 

of the major changes that already have taken 

place since the crisis began. this is the only 

way we can hope to avoid unintended nega
-
tive consequences, nurture a stable economic 

recovery, build a strong ˜nancial system and 

create a fair playing ˜eld for all.
our system was on the edge of chaos, 
and governments and regulators deserve 

enormous credit for preventing the collapse
i have long been on record giving huge 



-ments around the world for the drastic, bold 
actions they took to stop this rapidly moving 

crisis from getting considerably worse. a 

great number of the actions that the treasury 

and the federal reserve took, both directly 

and indirectly, helped sustain numerous 

institutions and probably prevented many 
21from failure and bankruptcy. these actions 
were done to save the economy and to 


everything in our power to stop a crisis 
from happening again, we should recognize 

two critical points. markets can be rational 

or irrational, and fear could freeze markets 

again. and when there are severe problems, 

only the government, in some form, has the 

wherewithal, power and liquidity to be the 

backstop of last resort.
e˜ectively changing our exceedingly complex 
global economic system requires great care


as any crisis can, but it quickly careened into 
a global catastrophe. most observers pinpoint 

the key moment as lehman brothers™ failure 

in september 2008. but one of the things 
that made lehman™s failure so bad was that 

it came after the failure of bear stearns, 

fannie mae and freddie mac, among others. 

it was the cumulative e˚ect of the collapse 

of all these institutions, many of which were 



lehman™s failure occurred at another time, 

and been an isolated event, its failure would 

not likely have been so devastating. 
complex systems Œ and our global economic 
system surely is one Œ often oscillate within 
relatively normal con˜nes. our complex 

economic system regularly has produced -sionally a devastating one like the great 

depression or the recent economic crisis. 

the factors that occasionally and devastat
-
ingly derail a system at any point in time 

may have contributed only because the 

table already had been set; at other times, 

the same factor would have had no e˚ect at 

all. this phenomenon shows up in complex 

systems throughout nature.
scientists dealing with complex systems try 
to isolate the impact of changing one input 

while holding all other elements constant. 

they know that if they change everything at 

once, it may be impossible to identify cause 

and e˚ect.as we try to remake our complex economic 
system, we need to be cautious and respectful 

of what the cumulative e˚ect will be of 

making multiple changes at the same time. 
a great deal already has been done to 
improve the system Š by regulators and 

governments Š and by the market itself 
as all the rules and regulations of dodd-frank and basel iii are being completed, a 

tremendous amount already has been done 

to strengthen the ˜nancial system. capital and liquidity standards already have been 
strengthened 
before the crisis, we believe the thresholds for 
capital and liquidity requirements were far 

too low. this was one of the key underlying 

causes of the crisis (and the reason jpmorgan 

chase always held far more capital than was 







these standards already have been increased 


the stress test in february of 2009, it raised 

the minimum tier 1 common capital 

requirement from 2% to 4%. the recent 

stress test raised the capital requirement 
to 5% and imposed a more stringent test: 
banks now must demonstrate that they can 

maintain a capital level of 5% throughout a 

highly stressed environment. the new basel 

iii requirements e˚ectively will raise the 5% 

to 10%. (i will talk more about capital stan-substantial improvements already have been 
made in the standards for residential and 

commercial mortgages and secured ˚nancing, 

among others 
the marketplace, investors, banks, regulators 
and rating agencies already have signi˜
-
cantly upgraded the standards by which 

many products and institutions operate. for 

example:







comply with standards that existed many 

years ago, before the worst of the past 

decade™s excesses. these mortgages include 

sensible features such as loan-to-value ratios 

mostly below 80%, true income veri˜cation 

and more conservative home-value appraisals.


disclose more information, hold higher-

rated paper and maintain much more 

liquidity as a safeguard against potential 

runs. this was a critical systemic ˝aw 

around the lehman collapse.
22





more information. some of the information 
provided is quite useful, such as disclosures 

on funding, liquidity of assets and greater 




















Œ in which large investors, institutions and 

˜nancial ˜rms use short-term, collateral
-
ized borrowing to ˜nance some of their 

investments Œ now require more conser
-





exotic securities.
shadow banking essentially is gone
people mean very di˚erent things when they 

system into two pieces: the ˜rst piece is 

one most observers barely knew existed. it 

consisted of largely o˚-balance sheet instru-
ments like structured investment vehicles 
on-balance sheet instruments that were fairly 

well-known, such as asset-backed commercial 

paper, money market funds and repos.
the o˚-balance sheet vehicles, like sivs, 
essentially are gone. the on-balance sheet 

instruments like money market funds, repos 

and asset-backed commercial paper are 

smaller in size, less leveraged, more conser
-vatively managed and far more transparent.
there are more regulators with proper resolution 
authority and comprehensive oversight
today, a greater number of regulatory bodies 
are providing an unprecedented level of 

oversight. new resolution laws and living 

wills will give regulators even more tools to 

use in handling a future crisis.
banks™ trading businesses are far more conservative


eliminated proprietary trading. in addition, 

exotic products are smaller in size and more 

transparent, and trading books require far 

more capital and liquidity to support.standardized derivatives already are moving to 
clearinghouses
it is a common misperception that deriva
-tives were not regulated. they actually were: 






other bank regulators. it also is a misconcep
-
tion that derivatives pricing lacked trans
-
parency; accurate market data on the vast 

majority of all derivatives were readily avail
-
able and easy to access. 
nonetheless, we agree it is a good thing 
that standardized derivatives are moving to 

clearinghouses. this will help standardize 

contracts, simplify operational procedures, 

improve regulatory transparency and reduce 

aggregate counterparty risk. i will discuss 

this issue in more detail later.
boards, management and regulators are more 
attentive to risk
at the corporate board and management levels, risk management now involves much 

greater attention to detail. risk reviews are 
increasingly thorough, risk disclosures are 

deeper and any executive responsible for risk 

taking is the recipient of extensive oversight.
collectively, these substantial changes have 
materially reduced risk to each individual 

˜nancial institution and to the system as a 

need to be codi˜ed, they may go a long way 

in creating the very strong kind of ˜nancial 

system we all want. 
we need to get the rest of it right Š 
based on facts and analysis, not anger or 

specious arguments
in their book, 
this time is di˜erent: eight 
centuries of financial folly
, economists 






eight large economic crises over the past 800 
years. these crises generally emanated from 

trade imbalances, foreign exchange issues 

and real estate speculation. included among 

their observations was the fact that when the 

crisis also involved the collapse of the ˜nan
-
cial system Œ in four of the eight crises they 

studied Œ recovery took longer than expected 








but we should not assume that this historic 

pattern is preordained or predictive. it also 

seems likely that bad policy decisions made 

inadvertently and without forethought Œ 

during and after these crises Œ may very well 

have increased the level, length and severity of 

the economic stress attributed to these crises.
23for the implementation of dodd-frank to 
be e˚ective, it must recognize the improve
-ments that already have been made and 

focus on resolving what remains to be done. 

dodd-frank creates several additional regula
-
tors and sets forth more than 400 rules and 

regulations that need to be implemented 

by various regulatory bodies. in addition to 








governments and new capital and liquidity 

requirements emanating from basel.

stability and growth of the system. and we 

know that our chances for a strong global 

recovery are maximized if we get the rest 



getting close Œ let™s not blow it. moving 

forward, here are some important issues 
 
that need to be handled carefully. 
the new oversight board Š the financial stability 
oversight council Š needs to require coordination 

among all the regulators, both domestic and global
ideally, america should have streamlined 
its regulatory system. instead, our legisla
-
tors have created several additional regula
-
tors. this makes domestic and international 

coordination both more complex and even 

more critical. in fact, many of the regulators 

are setting up departments to deal with the 
other regulatory departments (if that is not 
the very de˜nition of bureaucracy, i don™t 
it makes it all the more important that the 

new oversight board, the financial stability 


coordination among the regulators™ activi
-


moving in di˚erent directions in their regu
-
lation of like products. the fsoc should nip 

this problem in the bud. in addition to domestic coordination, the 
fsoc must ensure that the rules and regu-
lations coming from basel and the g20 are 

implemented in a consistent and coordinated 

fashion. the fsoc also must be vigilant in 

identifying imbalances within the system that 

generate excessive risk Œ and be ready to take 

rapid action to ˜x such imbalances. finally, it 

needs to be aware of the development of new 

shadow banks and be prepared to intervene 

when they pose potential risks to the system.
regulators should build a system that creates 
continuous improvement
there are implicit di˛culties in trying 
need to do is put a system in place that can respond in real time to changes in the 

marketplace, create a culture that promotes 

continuous improvement, and design e˚ec
-
tive tools that operate as both gas pedals and 

brakes. this is what will enable them to do a 

better job managing the economy. 


tools and uses: the ability of regulators to 

change mortgage loan-to-value ratios up or 

down if they thought the housing market 

was becoming too frothy; change capital 

requirements immediately on speci˜c loans, 

investments or securities when speci˜c asset 

classes showed signs of becoming problem
-
atic; and dial up or down certain liquidity 
requirements and repo haircuts when 
excesses were taking place.
the volcker rule needs to leave ample room 
 for market-making Š the lifeblood of our capital 
markets
the volcker rule has various components. 



component eliminating pure proprietary trading; and the component limiting banks 
from investing substantial amounts of their 

own capital into hedge funds. 
our concern largely is with a third aspect regarding capital and market-making. it™s 

critical that the rules regarding market-

making allow properly priced risk to be 
taken so we can serve clients and maintain 

liquidity. the recently proposed higher 

capital and liquidity standards for market-

making operations Œ the new basel ii and 
basel iii capital rules Œ approximately triple 

the amount of regulatory capital for trading 

portfolios inclusive of market-making and 

hedging activities. for the most part, these 

capital rules protect against excessive risk 




are needed, under the volcker rule or other
-


these rules need to be carefully constructed 
(e.g., they should distinguish between liquid 

and illiquid securities, allow for hedging 

either on a speci˜c-name or portfolio basis, 
24

-sively buy and sell securities in size, inves
-tors are able to get the best possible prices 
for their securities.
derivatives regulation must allow for true end-
user exemptions and for transparency rules that 

don™t restrict liquidity
as i already stated, we completely agree with 
the creation of clearinghouses for standard 

derivatives. that said, clearinghouses do not 

eliminate risk; they standardize and concen
-
trate it. therefore, it is essential that these 

clearinghouses be strong, operate under 

sound rules and have well-capitalized member 




-houses to become the next systemic problem.
it™s also important to maintain a category 
of non-standardized derivatives contracts. 

these contracts are not ˜t for a clearing
-
house because the clearinghouse cannot 
adequately value, margin or settle them. 


contracts are important to very sophisticated 

institutions (of course, such contracts should 

be fully disclosed to the regulators and prop-additionally, client margin requirements 

need to be clari˜ed. if clients are required 
to post margin, either their liquidity will be 

reduced or these clients will migrate their 
derivatives trades to overseas markets that 

do not have such posting requirements. 
regulators also must seek to strike the right 
balance between the need for transparency 

and the need to protect investors™ interests. 

to the extent that transparency rules reduce 

liquidity and widen spreads, they actually 

can damage the very investors the regula
-
tors are trying to help. if market-makers 

are required to quickly disclose the price at 

which they are buying a large amount of 

securities or a small amount of very illiquid 

securities, they will necessarily be more 

conservative about the amount of risk they 

take. as a result, they will bid for less and 

price the risk higher since the whole world 

will know their position.finally, there is a truly misguided element 

of dodd-frank regarding derivatives. this 

˜rms like ours to move credit, equity and 

commodity derivatives outside the bank. 

this requirement necessitates our creating 
a separately capitalized subsidiary and 
requiring our clients to establish new legal 

contracts with this new subsidiary. this is 

an operational nightmare (which we can 


it runs completely counter to recent e˚orts 

by regulators to reduce banks™ exposure to 

counterparty default. this provision creates a 

lot of costs and no


makes our system riskier Œ not safer.
we need to create a consumer financial protec
-tion bureau that is e˜ective for both consumers 
and banksit has been widely reported that we were 
against the creation of a consumer financial 



were against the creation of a standalone 

cfpb, operating separately and apart from 

whatever regulatory agency already had 




that a cfpb should have been housed within 

the banking regulators and with proper 
authority within that regulator. this would 

have avoided the overlap, confusion and 

bureaucracy created by competing agencies.



were many good reasons that led to the 

creation of the cfpb and believe that if 

the cfpb does its job well, the agency will 

bene˜t american consumers and the system. 

strong regulatory standards, adequate 

review of new products and transparency to 
consumers all are good things. indeed, had 

there been stronger standards in the mort-
gage markets, one huge cause of the recent 

crisis might have been avoided. other coun
-
tries with stricter limits on mortgages, such 

as higher loan-to-value ratios, didn™t experi
-
ence a mortgage crisis comparable with ours. 

as recently as ˜ve years ago, most americans 





one of the best in the world Œ boy, was that 
not work well for any market participant Œ 

lender or borrower Œ and a careful rewriting 

of the rules would bene˜t all. 
25the durbin amendment was passed with 
 no fact-˜nding, analysis or debate, had 
 nothing to do with the crisis and potentially 
 will harm consumers
the durbin amendment, which regulates 
debit interchange fees, was added belatedly 
to the dodd-frank act. it is an example of a 
policy that has little basis in fact or analysis. 
when policymakers undertake such a signi˜
-cant rewrite of the rules, there often is a 
tendency to adopt ideas with surface appeal. in this case, some potentially signi˜cant, 
unintended consequences exist, particularly 
for consumers.
most analysis of the costs and bene˜ts 
of debit cards shows that the debit card 
provides more total value (after fairly 
looking at all the costs and bene˜ts) to 
retailers than cash, checks or many other 
forms of payment. in addition, merchants 
negotiate fees (if they agree to accept 
debit cards at all Œ 20% don™t), and some 
pay as low as 35 basis points while other 
merchants pay considerably more.
the law that passed, and has been inter
-preted by the fed in its proposed rule, 
permits a bank to charge only its ﬁincre
-mentalﬂ interchange cost. this cost does not 
include the direct costs of issuing debit cards, 
such as the printing and mailing of the cards, 
operational and call center support to service the cards, and the cost of fraud. also absent 
from the analysis are the costs of atms and 
branches, which are part of the ˜xed costs of 
servicing checking accounts and debit cards. 
any business that is allowed to charge only 
enough to recover its products™ variable costs 
would soon be in bankruptcy.
the harm will fall largely on consumers; banks will be forced to lose money on debit 
interchange transactions and likely will 
compensate by increasing fees in some way 
for deposit customers. while the primary 
e˚ect on consumers will be higher prices for 
banking services, there also will be secondary 
e˚ects. some customers may opt out of the 
banking system (even though the cost of 
being unbanked is much higher).* the law 
will disproportionately a˚ect lower income 
consumers. some analysts estimate that as 
many as 5% of u.s. families currently in 
the mainstream banking system will leave 
and become unbanked. the durbin amend
-ment undoes a generation of hard work to 
decrease the cost and increase the e˛ciencies of banking for ordinary americans and to 
reduce the ranks of the unbanked.
finally, it™s a terrible mistake and also bad 
policy for the government to get involved 
in price ˜xing and regulating business-to-business contracts. the durbin amendment 
is price ˜xing at its worst. it is arbitrary and 
discriminatory Œ it stipulates that only large banks (those with assets of $10 billion or more) will be a˚ected by its price ˜xing. but 
while the law purports to exempt smaller 
banks, credit unions and prepaid govern
-ment bene˜t cards, the reality is that not one 
of these groups will be immune to the nega
-tive implications of this rule. 
the debit card has been a tremendous boon to both merchants and consumers. 
before policymakers undertake these types 
of actions that pose such profound e˚ects, 
they need to fully understand the conse
-quences of their actions. the durbin amend
-ment was passed in the middle of the night 
with limited fact-˜nding, little analysis and 
minimal debate, and i think it appropriate 
that we return to fact-˜nding and analysis in 
the full light of day.
resolution authority needs to be properly 
designedsimply put, resolution authority essentially 
provides a bankruptcy process for big banks 
that is controlled and minimizes damage 
to the economy. we made a mistake when 
we called this aspect of ˜nancial reform 
ﬁresolution authority,ﬂ which sounds to 
the general public very much like a bailout. 
perhaps a better name for it would have 
been ﬁminimally damaging bankruptcy 
for big dumb banksﬂ (mdbfbdb). banks 
entering this process should do so with 
the understanding and certainty that the 
equity will be wiped out, the clawbacks on 
compensation will be fully invoked, and the 
company will be dismembered and eventu
-ally sold or liquidated.* there is an interesting 
associated press 
article 
written on the cost of 
being unbanked
.26

authority to ˜re the management and board of directors and wipe out equity and unse-
cured debt Œ in a way that does not damage 

the economy. controlled failure of large 

˜nancial institutions should work the same 

way. it is complex because these companies 

are big and global and require international 
-controlled failure can be achieved.
in the process, the role of preferred equity 
and unsecured debt needs to be clari˜ed. 
this may require corresponding accounting 

changes. my preference would be, at the 

point of failure, to convert preferred equity 

and unsecured debt to pure, new common 




bankrupt, it had $26 billion of equity and 

$128 billion of unsecured debt. if, on the day 

of bankruptcy, the regulators had converted 

that unsecured debt to equity, lehman would 

have been massively overcapitalized and 

possibly able to secure funding to continue 
its operations and meet its obligations. the 

process to sell or liquidate the company 

would have been far more orderly. and the 

e˚ect on the global economy would have 

been less damaging. 
payouts received on liquidation of the assets 
of the company would have been paid ˜rst 



holders Œ this essentially is what happens 
in bankruptcy (and would eliminate the 


it is unlikely that this orderly liquidation 

would have resulted in losses exceeding the 


would not have cost the fdic any money. 




to the fdic, we believe that the loss should 

be charged back to the banks, not to the 

taxpayers, just as the fdic does today.
banks should pay for the failure of banks (as the 
fdic is structured today), which is far better than 

arbitrary, punitive or excessive taxes
systemically important ˜nancial institutions 







of resolving their fellow large institutions™ fail
-ures. this is not a new idea Œ banks already 

bear this responsibility (through the cost of 






some folks may believe, the fdic is a govern
-

not pay for it Œ 100% of the cost for the fdic 






share alone of the fdic™s costs relating to the 





charging banks additional costs Œ propor-tionally and fairly allocated Œ for main
-
taining the banking system seems to be both 
proper and just. in our opinion, this is far 

more preferable than trying to create addi-
tional taxes to sifis, as some countries are 

discussing. banks should pay for the failure 

of banks but not through arbitrary, punitive 

or excessive taxes.
critical accounting and capital rules need to be 
redesigned to ensure better transparency and 

less pro-cyclicality
if properly designed, countercyclical 
accounting and capital rules can serve as stabi
-lizers in a turbulent economy. i will mention 

two issues that underscore the need for this 

approach, although there are many more.
first, loan loss reserving currently is highly 







point, so are loan loss reserves and vice versa. 
there are many ways to ˜x this intelligently 

while adhering to rational accounting rules.
second, capital rules even under basel iii 
require less capital in benign markets than in 

turbulent times. so at precisely the time when 

things can only get worse, we require the least 

amount of capital. this also is easy to ˜x. 
and one additional observation from outside 
our industry: federal, state and local govern
-
ments need to change their accounting stan
-re˝ect obligations made today that don™t come 

due for many years. this one accounting issue 

allows governments to take on commitments 

today but not recognize them on ˜nancial 

statements as obligations or liabilities.
27we need to beware of backward-looking models 
and ﬁgroup thinkﬂ

limitations of backward-looking models. 
and we need to be even more conscious 

and suspect of what will happen when all 
market participants essentially are using the 




playing ˜eld Œ and fair application of rules 

to all participants, including common and 

consistent ways of calculating risk-weighted 

assets Œ we need to guard against the risk of 

models and capital-allocation standards, this 

potentially plants the seeds of the next crisis. 

that is essentially what happened with mort-
gages in this last crisis.
the mortgage business needs to be radically 
overhauled


from the ground up. i™ve already spoken 
about why we need stronger standards, 

including loan-to-value ratios and income 

veri˜cation, but we also need servicing 

contracts that are more consistent from both 
the consumer and investor standpoints. 

in addition, it would be bene˜cial to have 

foreclosure processes and standards that are 

common and consistent across all 50 states. 
most critically, it is incumbent upon us 
to resolve the status of the government-

sponsored entities, fannie mae and freddie 





believe in these rules regarding securitiza
-
tions (requiring mortgage originators to hold 


said, the devil will be in the details, but we 

generally are supportive. additionally, the 

government recently rolled out three models 

of how government-sponsored enterprises 








these models could be designed to work for 

consumers and investors and e˚ectively could 

create a strong and stable mortgage ˜nance 

system. alternatively, any one could be 

designed in a way that could lead to disaster.
the key is for policymakers and market 

participants to get all elements right. if 
they succeed, then mortgage products will 

be much improved for both consumers 


were to be better clari˜ed and more limited, 

there would be lower risk of damage to the 

economy, and the taxpayers would not be left 

footing the bill for failure.
getting to the right capital and liquidity 
levels 
of all the changes being made in the ˜nan
-cial system, we believe it is most impor
-tant to have higher, but proper, capital and 

liquidity requirements for banks. but these 

levels cannot be arbitrary or political Œ they 

must be rooted in logic and designed for 

the fundamental purpose of best preparing 
banks to be able to handle extremely stressed 

environments Œ a purpose that always has 

been central to jpmorgan chase™s capital 



if the levels of capital are set too high, they 

can both impede economic growth and push 
more of what we refer to as banking into the 

hands of non-banks.
jpmorgan chase had adequate capital both to deal 
with the government™s new stress test, and, more 

important, to deal with the real stress test of the 

past few years Š we don™t see the need for more
stress tests Œ both forward- and backward-







common capital provided plenty of capital. 

in february of 2009, it required banks to have 
4% tier 1 common capital. as shown in 

the chart on the next page, jpmorgan chase 









of equity, we were able to acquire both bear 

powering through the crisis. throughout the 

entire period, our capital ratio barely dropped.  
the basel iii rules e˚ectively would require 
jpmorgan chase to hold approximately 50% 

more capital than the already high level of 

capital held during the crisis. the call under 


capital essentially is equivalent to the 10% 

standard or more under basel i. this is 
28because the regulators tightened up the de˜ni-tions for all types of capital Œ rightly so Œ and 
increased standards for the calculation of 

risk-weighted assets (mostly for trading assets, 

basel iii™s higher capital requirements 

provide more than enough capacity to with
-



we should be required to hold even more 

capital. the chart below presents a forward-

looking stress test on jpmorgan chase™s 


what our basel i and basel iii tier 1 capital 

ratios would be. these are estimates, but 

they give you a sense of the strength of our 
capital generation, even under stress. a great 

deal of detailed analysis goes into these tests, 

including the assumptions that home prices 
would drop another 15% from peak levels 

and unemployment would go to 12%. this 

stress test is a more severe case than in the 

federal reserve™s stress test. 
years Œ one of the worst environments of all 

time Œ jpmorgan chase did ˜ne. in forward-

looking stress tests, we are in excellent shape. 
the whole purpose of capital is to be able to protect the ˜rm under conditions of extreme 




the capital standards should be increased. basel i tier 1 common ratio
basel iii tier 1 common ratio
20132012201120102013201220112013201220112010201320122011tier 1 
common 

fed 

guideline: 
5%
analyst projectionsﬁstressedﬂ analyst projectionsanalyst projectionsﬁstressedﬂ analyst projectionsbasel i tier 1 common ratiobasel iii tier 1 common ratio9.
8%
10.7
%11.4%
12.2%~10%~11%
~12%7%~8%
~10%~11%
~8%
~9%~10%2019
basel iii
tier 1 

common 

guideline: 
7%










































as shown in the chart below, jpmorgan chase maintained plenty of capital throughout the ˚nancial crisis.
 jpmorgan chase quarterly capital levels 
29

we clearly needed during the crisis. and 
multiple other improvements have been 

not see the need for 
even more capital, and 

we believe the facts prove it.
banks did not bene˚t from any kind of implicit 
guarantee
the argument that systemically important ˜nancial institutions should hold more 
capital than small banks is predicated on 
two false notions: ˜rst, that sifis borrow 

money more cheaply because of an implicit 

guarantee (and that the cost of higher capital second, that all sifis needed to be bailed out 

because they were too big to fail.
the notion that sifis had an implied guarantee is completely disproved by the 

chart below. it shows the borrowing costs 

of fannie mae and freddie mac Œ compa
-
nies with a true implied guarantee from the 
federal government Œ vs. the borrowing costs 

of aa-rated banks and industrial companies. 

as you see, the borrowing costs of these 

banks were similar to those of aa-rated 

industrials, neither of which bene˜ted from 

an implicit government guarantee of any 

kind. surprisingly, even 
after
 the govern
-
ment said that it was not going to allow any 

additional banks to fail, the high borrowing 

costs for banks continued.

failed during this crisis, that is not true for 

all banks. many banks around the world, 

including jpmorgan chase, were ports of 

stability in the storm and proved to be great 

stabilizers at the height of the crisis in late 

2008 and early 2009. remember, also, that 

some of the banks identi˜ed as too big to fail, 

in reality, were too big to fail 
at the time after 

so much cumulative damage. at that time, the 

too-big-to-fail moniker was extended to large 

industrial companies, money market funds, 

just about any company that issued commer
-cial paper, insurance companies and others. 
we should be very thoughtful about demanding 
that global sifis hold more capital
presumably, risk-weighted assets re˝ect the 
riskiness of the company. if there are to be 

extra capital charges for sifis and global 

sifis, such decisions should be based upon 

logic and proof that sifis and global sifis 
pose a greater risk to the system. some sifis 
posed a great risk while other sifis did not. 

strictly a function of size. also, if resolution 

authority is meant to take care of the too-

big-to-fail problem, then what purpose does 

further raising capital levels serve other than 











aa-rated u.s. banks™ and other industries™ spreads above treasury:
crisis/post-crisis (7/2007Œ9/2010)









30
sifis creates issues: does this status make 


-tions in the future as some people decide the regulators going to make it clear what 
a company could do to give up the sifi or 

global sifi status and reduce your capital 
ways for speci˜c sifis to reduce their capital 


up to the judgment of various bureaucra
-
become a political process as you travel to 




in short, we at jpmorgan chase see the value 

of higher capital and liquidity and the wisdom 

of resolution plans and living wills that make 










that banks should continue to pay for bank 








increasingly higher capital ratios.
the need for large global banks and 
america™s competitive position
companies come in various sizes, shapes 
and forms. there are many reasons for 

this. at jpmorgan chase, we bene˜t from 

huge economies of scale in our businesses. 

the same goes for most large enterprises. 
-ally come from technology, including data 

centers, networks and software; the bene˜ts 

of global branding; the ability to make huge 

investments; and the true diversi˜cation of 

risks. the bene˜ciaries of these economies of 

scale ultimately are the consumers who these 
companies serve. 
moreover, in many ways, the size of our 
company is directly related to the size of the 

clients we serve globally. our size supports 

the level of resources needed to service these 

large, multinational clients Œ and enables us to 

take on the necessary risk to support them.
for some of our wholesale clients, we are 

asked to make bridge loans or underwrite 


sell trillions of dollars of securities a day and 

move some $10 trillion of cash around the 





a client, it may include revolving credit, trade 

˜nance, trading lines, intraday lines and 

derivatives lines Œ often in multiple locations 

globally Œ and often in the billions. 


enabled us to improve branches in many 

ways: adding salespeople; retro˜tting and 

upgrading each location; adding improved 

products, services and systems; and saving 



this allowed us to o˚er our clients better 

products and services. 
in a free market economy, companies 
grow over time because they are winning 

customers. these companies win customers 

and grow market share because they Œ rela
-
tive to the competition Œ are doing a better 

of providing customers with what they want.
consolidation does not cause crises, and the u.s. 
banking system is far less consolidated than most 

other countries 

approximately 20,000 banks 30 years ago to 



will continue as banks seek out economies of scale and competitive advantage. that 

does not mean there won™t be start-ups and 

successful community banks. it just means 

that, in general, consolidation will continue, 

as it has in many industries. 

than most other countries (see chart on next 
in any case, the degree of industry consolida
-
tion has not, in and of itself, been a driving 

force behind the ˜nancial crisis. in fact, some 

countries that were far more consolidated 

(canada, australia, brazil, china and japan, 
crisis so there is not compelling evidence to 
back up the notion that consolidation was a 

major cause of the problem.31 notes: deposit market share data 
are related to the operations/
transactions conducted by banks 
domiciled in each respective 
country, including branches and 
subsidiaries of foreign banks
 1  deposit market share is based 
on the top eight banks in france, 
top seven banks in sweden, top 
four banks in the netherlands, top 
three banks in germany and top 
two banks in switzerland
 sources: j.p. morgan and j.p. morgan 
cazenove research estimates; com
-pany ˜lings and reports; and central 
bank and trade association data
top 20 countries by gross domestic product
  deposit market share for top 10 banks 
 in each respective country 
 % share
canada
 97 %mexico
 93turkey
 92south korea
 91australia
 90france
1 88brazil
 85 spain 84sweden
1 84argentina
 76the netherlands1 76china 
 67japan 62india 61russia 61italy 53united kingdom
 48united states
 41switzerland
1 35germany
1 26we should be concerned about american banks 
losing global market share Œ because they are
two facts support this contention:
u.s. investment banking services are increas
-ingly being provided by foreign banks.
 while 
it is gratifying to see j.p. morgan go from 
nowhere to become #1 in u.s. investment 
banking, it is notable how much u.s. invest
-ment banking has changed. twenty years 
ago, u.s. investment banks dominated u.s. 
investment banking Œ occupying all of the 
top 10 positions. a decade ago, they held 
nine of the top 10. last year, u.s. investment 
banks held only ˜ve Œ half Œ of the top 10 slots 
(see chart below).
u.s. banks also have lost signi˜cant position
. in 1989, u.s. banks represented 44 of the 
50 largest ˜nancial ˜rms in the world (by 
market capitalization). more than 20 years 
later, american banks now number only six 
of the top 50. while much of this change 
has to do with the growth of the rest of the world, it is striking both how fast and how 
dramatic the change has been.
it™s important that we make sure that american 
banks stay competitive
we believe that it is good for america Œ the 
world™s leading global economy Œ to have 
leading global banks. being involved in 
the capital ˚ows between corporations and 
investors across the globe is a critical func
-tion. large, sophisticated institutions will be 
required to manage these ˚ows and to inter-mediate or invest directly if necessary. global 
markets will require sophisticated analysis, 
tools and execution. 
the impact of ceding this role to banks based outside the united states could be detrimental to the u.s. economy and to u.s. 
market-leading franchises Š investment bank
u.s. equity, equity-related and debt
rank 1990  2000  20101  merrill lynch
  merrill lynch
 j.p. morgan
2  goldman sachs  salomon smith barney 
 barclays capital
3  salomon brothers 
 morgan stanley
  bank of america merrill lynch
4  first boston
  credit suisse
  deutsche bank5  morgan stanley 
 goldman sachs  goldman sachs6  kidder peabody
  lehman brothers
 citi7  bear stearns chase
  royal bank of scotland
8  shearson lehman
  j.p. morgan
  ubs9 prudential-bache capital
  bank of america  morgan stanley
10  donaldson lufkin & jenrette
  deutsche bank credit suisse
source: thomson reuters. data as of 12/31/10. rankings based on dollar volume run on march 14, 2011
 note: light gray font designates ˜rms that no longer exist; orange font indicates non-u.s.-based ˜rms
32


has had the deepest and best capital markets 
on the planet. these markets match investors 

with companies, large and small, who inno
-
vate, invest and grow around the world. they 

have helped build some of the best compa
-
nies in the world and the best economy on 

the planet. america™s ˜nancial institutions 

have been a critical part of this success. 




clearly required, we should not throw out the 

baby with the bath water. 
some of the laws that were written and some 
of the possible interpretations of rules to 
come could create competitive disadvantages 

for american banks. they are adding up, and 

they bear watching. they are:


to use tax-deductible preferred stock as 



that they will not accept the volcker rule 

(despite paul volcker™s testimony that inter
-national regulators would adopt it once 




unlikely to be adopted universally. certain 

countries are licking their chops at the 

compete in derivatives. remember, the 

clients will go to the place that is the 
cheapest and most e˚ective for them.


new, that constrain american banks™ ability 

from making acquisitions both here and 
abroad. some of these constraints will not 
apply to foreign banks.

arbitrary taxes that could disadvantage 

large banks Œ even the fdic has skewed its 

deposit insurance to increase the charge to 

bigger banks.

world may not have their large banks 

maintain additional capital requirements in 


allows for a much less conservative calcula
-
tion on risk-weighted assets.




the treasury would want to leave american 


leadership to be forceful and engaged to 

ensure a fair outcome.
we all have a vested interest in getting this right
the government took great action to stop the 

crisis from getting worse. lawmakers and 

regulators have and will take much action 

to ˜x what clearly was a broken system. as 

quickly as we reasonably can, we should 

˜nish the remaining rules and requirements 
and create the certainty that will help the 
system to heal faster. nothing is more impor
-tant than getting our economy growing and 

getting americans back to work. and the 

regulators should remember that they always 

have the right to change things again Œ if and 

when appropriate.
33 v.
 conclusion
 you can rest assured that your management 
team and board of directors are completely 
focused on all the opportunities, issues and 

risks that we have ahead of us. 
regarding the regulatory changes, we have 

sta˚ed with lawyers; accountants; credit 
o˛cers; compliance, systems and opera
-
tions specialists; and bankers and traders Œ 

analyzing and preparing for each of the new 

regulatory requirements. all in all, thousands 

of our people around the world are partially 

or fully engaged in these endeavors.


rules and requirements, both in letter and 

spirit, and we will make sure that everything 

we do, wherever we can, is done with the 



to make numerous changes in our products, 

services and prices, we will strive to do so in 

the most customer-friendly way possible.
as we look toward the future, we see incred
-ible opportunities for your company, and our 

teams around the world are fully engaged in 

pursuing them. in every way we can, we continue to 

actively support the economic recovery. 

everyone does his or her part. and we 

intend to do ours by being a responsible 

corporate citizen and helping our commu-
nities across the globe. you can read 
 more about our extensive e˚orts on 
 jpmorganchase.com/forward. 
our people have done an extraordinary job, 
often under di˛cult circumstances. i hope 

you are as proud of them as i am.
jamie dimon
 
april 4, 2011
