2sof year-end 
2005,Istepped down as CEOofJPMorgan Chase Ð turning the leadership of the firm over

to my partner, Jamie Dimon, who I believe will prove to be
one of the outstanding CEOsthe financial services industryhas had in a long time.As Chairman, I look forward to contributing to our growthby leveraging my global relationships and contacts and byhelping to further develop strategy.
As I look back on my 38years in the industry, all with the
same organization, I realize how fortunate I have been and

what an exciting journey I have been on. When I left a
small town in North Carolina to join Chemical Bank in1967,my goal was to spend two years in New York and
then return to North Carolina. Little did I know I would
be part of an industry and a career that were as challenging
and rewarding as these have been.Istep down as CEObelieving that:¥JPMorgan Chase is very well positioned strategically to be
one of the great financial institutions in the world.¥Size does matter in our industry Ð provided that sizetranslates into operating and scale efficiencies, increased
profit margins, stronger earnings and leadership positions. And the benefits of size can only be realized
within a culture that values teamwork, partnership 
and execution.¥One should be a leaderÐnot a followerÐas our industry
irreversibly consolidates in a globalizing world.¥A diversified model will prove to have competitive
advantage in terms of creating shareholder value 
over time.¥Managements and boards have to manage with a 
longer-term outlook and resist the pressures of the 

quarter-to-quarter mindset of the market.
¥Building the best performance culture in the industry
will ensure that all of the inherent potential of size is
harvested and maximized.¥Relationships matter Ð with clients and with each other
internally Ð and without them, a firm will never reach
its potential and be its best.¥Companies with the highest ethical values, which start at
the top and cascade all the way down, will be the greatcompaniesÐand we must keep raising the bar on how we
achieve this in a large, complex corporation.
¥Surrounding yourself with people who are smarter and
better than you are is critical because your talent pool
will be a key determinant of success.¥I have been one of the most fortunate people in the
world to have had the experience and the success I have
had, and there is not one day that goes by that I donÕtthink about this.So from a small town to a big cityÐfrom a small bank to a
big bank, I learned much along the wayÐthat you, in fact,
never stop learning. You should always commit to be thebest you can be, you should think big and dream big, and
you should think about how you can win and what your
strategic platform should be to create sustainable share-
holder value. And you should do this by always, always
having the right set of values and living by them.You learn that the peaks and valleys, the successes and fail-
ures of your job and life need to be viewed with the proper
perspective and balance, and only with that balance and
perspective can you find true north.You learn how important your family and friends are in
enabling you to maintain the passion and commitment to
be the CEOof a firm like JPMorgan Chase and how privi-leged youÕve been to have been the leader.Thus, while my JPMorgan Chase career is nearing an end, a
new chapter in our companyÕs long history is beginning. It is

time to pass the baton to a new group of leaders, led by
Jamie Dimon, who will take this firm to the next level of
performance, harvesting its vast potential and maximizing
shareholder value through great execution.Letter from William B.Harrison,Jr,
ChairmanDear fellow shareholder, 
ALet me close with a profound thanks to our shareholderswho have had the faith to believe in the potential of this
firm. Thanks to our outstanding Board of Directors for
their support and wisdom, and I want to express my 
special gratitude to retiring directors Larry Bossidy and
Hans Becherer whose advice and counsel over many years
have been invaluable. Thanks to all of our clients and cus-tomers around the world for the opportunity to serve them. And thanksÐ
168,000thanksÐto our talented and dedicat-
ed employees around the world for what they stand for and
for what they contribute every day.
Icould not be more excited and confident about our future.Sincerely,
William B. Harrison, Jr.
ChairmanMarch 8,20063William B.Harrison,Jr.,
Chairman   James Dimon
,Chief Executive Officer his is my first letter to you as the CEO of JPMorgan
Chase. From a personal standpoint, I want to share with
you some feelings and thoughts. I feel a tremendous mix ofemotions: excitement about our potential, and a great senseof obligation and responsibility both to you, our share-holder, and to those who have built our company over the
years. They have given us an exceptional opportunity Ð andwe owe them not only our gratitude, but also our commit-ment to deliver on our companyÕs potential and make them

proud of what they have helped to build. We have accomplished a great deal over the last year, and
we are excited about our progress in 2005and our plans for2006.The foundation for everything we are doing rests onaset of business principles that we believe, when executedproperly,create great companies. These principles aredescribed on our Web site: www.jpmorganchase.com. Inessence, we strive to:¥Share with you the truth and offer honest assessments of our businesses and our prospects.¥Act with integrity and honor.¥Do the right thing, not necessarily the easy or expedient thing.¥Work hard and with fierce resolve to make this a 
company of which our shareholders, employees, 
customers and communities can be proud.¥Focus relentlessly on the execution of our business principles.There are some specific issues that are integral to the suc-cess of our company. I would like to address them by

answering the following questions:    I.Are we in the right businesses?
II.Can we achieve outstanding performance?III.Are we properly managing our risks?
IV.Do we have the right people and the right 
compensation strategy? V.Are we a good corporate citizen?
Letter from James Dimon,
Chief Executive OfficerDear fellow shareholder,
T4I.Are we in the right businesses?
Let me unequivocally answer this question with a resound-ing Òyes,Ó for three reasons: each business is already wellpositionedÐin terms of size and scopeÐwithin its specific

industry; there is exceptional value in the linkages amongour businesses; and the companyÕs size, scale and brands are
acompetitive strength.Each business is already well positioned within its specific industryOur six major lines of business Ð Investment Banking,Commercial Banking, Retail Financial Services, Card
Services, Asset & Wealth Management, and Treasury &

Securities Services Ð all compete in consolidating industries.
Businesses consolidate when the vast economies of scale that
can be achieved (in systems, operations, distribution, brand
and R&D,to name a few) will benefit the customer.We cannot underestimate the power of these economic
forces. Nor can we ignore the inevitable impact they have
on our businesses. But change is hard Ð and many who
attempt it fail. The winners will be those who can provide
their customers with more access to better financial prod-
ucts and services at a lower price. In this environment, 
size, scale and staying power matter, and all of our core

businesses already havewhat it takes to succeed; but as Idiscuss later,we must continue to improve our executionskills to distinguish our company in the marketplace. Our
businesses do not and will not want for capital or invest-ment. They are well equipped to survive in good and bad
times, and our customers will continually benefit from
their stability and efficiency,as well as the investments weare able to make in technology and innovation. Our businesses belong together,and there is exceptional value in the linkages among themAs separate entities, our businesses are currently well posi-tioned; together they are even stronger.Putting our busi-nesses together makes sense only if doing so creates valuefor customers and, ultimately,shareholders. It does notwork because we want it to Ð it only works because it givesthe customer more for less, sooner rather than later.Wehave no interest in selling our customers products that theydo not want or need.In this context, the term Òcross-sellÓ can be misleading.ÒCross-sellingÓ often carries negative connotations Ð as if it
is a forced and unnatural act. In fact, it should be describedmore appropriately as Ònatural product-line extensions,Ówhich businesses have been doing successfully for hundredsof years. Wal-Mart has continually expanded the types of
products it sells. Twenty years ago, who would have
thought that it would sell lettuce and tomatoes? Theseproduct-line extensions are true also for Home Depot, com-
mercial banks, investment banks, stockbrokers and evenmanufacturers. GEAircraft Engines now finances and serv-ices what it manufactures. The essence of what makes thissuccessful is that the customer is the winner. 
By extending our product lines, we are able to leverage thesubstantial investments we have made to build our distri-bution system (e.g., branches, technology and sales people),
strengthen our brand and earn the trust of our customers.
For example, today our branches, which are our retail
stores, not only accept deposits and provide access to cash,
but also sell investments, mortgages, home equity loans,
debit and credit cards, and online bill paying services, as
well as small business loans, international funds transfers,
payroll services, annuities, etc. Our clear Ònatural productÓ set is financial services, whichis what individuals and businesses want and expect from us.
Where the products are ÒmanufacturedÓ is of little interest
to them. What is important to them and to us is our 
ability to provide a better product, or package of products,
at a lower cost. Our challenge is to view this from their
perspective and ensure that our collective resources are
focused accordingly. 
In addition to providing substantial potential for growth,our mix of businesses presents us with fertile ground for
innovation. Here are a few examples of how our businesses
are working together:Retail and CardServices.The competitive advantage is formidable when our retail bank Ð which serves almost 10million households Ð joins forces with our credit cardcompany,with its 110 million cardholders. This collabora-tion should result in excellent new products that addressspecific consumer needs. For example, we may be able to5make life much simpler for our customers by linking creditand debit cards and by offering them other products. The
results of recent efforts are promising: credit card sales in
our retail branches are up nearly 100%from two years ago. Commercial Banking and Retail.Astrong connection already exists between our Commercial Bank and our retailbranches. In fact, there are few successful commercial banksin America that do not have a retail bank Ð and for goodreason. A large share of retail business comes from small
businesses and mid-sized companies. Many use branches astheir financial back offices for cash, payroll processing and
wire transfer services. This interdependency is cost effectivefor us and beneficial to our customers. In addition, businessaccounts often lead to new personal accounts and vice versa.Investment Banking and Commercial Banking. Anatural con-nection exists between an investment bank, which essen-
tially serves large public companies, and a commercial

bank, which essentially serves mid-sized to small public
and non-public companies. Our Commercial Bank already
generates hundreds of millions of dollars in revenues from
offering its clients traditional investment banking services
(e.g., advisory, debt and equity underwriting). Over the

next few years, we believe that we can double Commercial
BankingÕs revenues from these activities. In cities like

Indianapolis, Austin, Denver and Tucson Ð where our

Investment Bank does not have a physical presence Ð local
businesses have strong relationships with our commercial
bankers. These bankers know when their clients are con-
templating transactions and need access to investment
banking expertise. The connection is valuable for clients
and beneficial to us. It enables our Investment Bank to
generate revenues from its product expertise that it could
not have previously produced without the client relation-
ship. And it enables the Commercial Bank to better serve
its clients by providing them with the additional products
that they need. Treasury & Securities Services; Asset & Wealth Management.
Another important connection exists between Treasury &
Securities Services and our other businesses. Many of our
major customers (institutional, middle market, small busi-
ness and retail) use TSSfor activities such as cash, checks,ACHpayments, wire transfer and custody. 
TSSgeneratesapproximately $9billion of annual revenue by serving thesecustomers. Asset & Wealth Management also benefits from
working with other businesses, including managing assetsfor corporate clients, helping them meet their complex pen-sion and investment needs, and offering products fromacross the company to individual clients. Plenty of other examples exist, but the critical pointremains: while each business should do well on its own, itshould also be able to capitalize on our companyÕs extensive

and unique set of products and services to more fully andprofitably meet customer needs. There is certainly no rea-son why they should do worse because they are part of this
institution. The key,of course, is that the customers mustbe the winners. The size and scale of the company are a competitivestrengthThe size, scale and scope of JPMorgan Chase also offer huge
advantages: economies of scale in operations and systems;
diversification of capital, risk and earnings; a great global
brand; and the capability to make large investments at a

lower cost of capital. In particular, the benefits of size and

scale in operations and systems are vast, and they are real.
Our diversified earning streams lower our risk, increase our
credit ratings and reduce the cost of our capital. And since
one of our major costs is the cost of money, the ability to

raise funds cheaper, better, faster and more effectively around

the world than other companies is a major advantage. But size alone is not enough to win. In fact, if not properlymanaged, it can bring many negatives. Huge companies
operating in complex, consolidating and fiercely competi-tive industries like ours can only achieve and sustain theirsuccess by competing where the Òrubber hits the roadÓÐatthe level of the store, the product and the banker Ð not atcorporate headquarters. We must equip those employees on

the front lines to be responsive and responsible. The way
we manage our size will reflect how much we recognize and
respect this imperative. Bureaucracy and waste are lethal.
To remain healthy and vibrant, we must constantly and

consistently minimize bureaucracy, eliminate waste and

insist upon excellent execution. 6II.Can we achieve outstanding performance?
ÒYes,Ó but we are not there yet. Good positioning does not
assure great performance. Creating great performance is notmystical; it takes consistent effort, focus, hard work anddiscipline. The starting point for us is to admit where we are. Anyway one analyzes our businesses, for the most part our costsare too high, our returns on capital are too low and ourgrowth is not what it could be.We are underperforming financially in many areas. We
need to understand the reasons and focus our energy on

making improvements, not excuses. We cannot afford to

waste time justifying mediocrity. Each line of business 

now assesses its performance in a rigorous and very detailed
way. Each compares results to targets in a variety of areas,

including sales force productivity, customer service and 

systems development. It is not enough for the overall business to make its profittargets. It would be unacceptable to achieve good financial

returns by reducing expenses that are critical investments
for the future or by compromising the qualityof businessthat we do. The best way to reach and sustain a higher level
of performance is to get every part of the business to step
up its game. For example, we have some businesses that, in
general, achieve adequate returns. These results are often
produced when a few exceptional business segments do the
heavy lifting for the rest. We cannot use our strengths in

one part of our business to subsidize our weaknesses in
another part. We spend a lot of time on capital and return on capital.
How we allocate capital should reflect our understanding of
how changes in the economy Ð and the likely length and
intensity of the cycles they cause Ð will affect specific parts
of our business. Where will the risks and growth opportu-nities be? For example, there willbe another recession; wejust do not know when. What we do know,however,is thatwhen it happens, our annual credit costs will increase sub-stantially.Therefore, when we talk about return on capital,we must look at it through the cycle, not just during thebest parts of the cycle.Many companies that compete in our businesses have beenwell managed and able to produce excellent results for
decades. We have every reason to be among them. Time
will tell if we are. We have made progress, but not enough.
To get outstanding performance, we must instill the follow-
ing disciplines deep into the fiber of our company.
Become lean and efficient
This is an imperative. One cannot achieve great perform-ance in fiercely competitive industries without being lean and efficient. It is irresponsible to waste our critical
resources on expenditures that have nothing to do with better serving our clients and building a great company.
Weneed to use our resources to grow,innovate, market,hire productive people and build systems. It is not justabout cutting costs. A company cannot become great just
by cutting costs. It is about building better systems to bet-ter serve our customers. It is about paying our people not
only fairly,but effectively,to help create the right behavior.It is about how we run meetings. It is about designing theright products that are also profitable. (Many companies
design products that lose money,and they do not evenknow it.) It is about constantly improving productivity.We must continually ask ourselves: Can the same invest-
ment in the same area be better spent? Does every business
strive to get the most out of its resources? The Investment
Bank, for example, has many businesses, depending upon
how you measure it. Does each business spend its money
efficiently and wisely? Are we spending the right amount
in the right way and expecting the right results? Last year,

we spent over $1billion in marketing to get 11million newcredit card accounts. Can we spend more and get even bet-
ter results? We probably can. This year, we want to both

spend more and get more from every dollar we spend.
When we determine that we can and are spending money
wisely, we will want to spend 
more, not less.Since the merger, we have realized $
1.9billion in merger
savings. However, much more is needed to achieve what we

would consider to be realefficiency. This past year, we
launched and completed major projects aimed at increasing
our efficiency and improving our customer service over the
long run. They include:7¥Completing the largest credit card conversion in history.
This effort combined over 30million heritage Chase andBank One accounts onto a single platform and providedus with a single best-in-class system to better serve ourcustomers (and at a lower cost).¥Integrating and upgrading all of our businesses in Texas Ð in terms of products, brand, systems and 
operations Ð where we have 20,000employees serving 2million customers.¥Converting all U.S.dollar clearing to one platform glob-ally, an operation that processes an average of $
3.2tril-lion daily for 200,000clients worldwide.¥Executing the largest merger of mutual fund families inU.S. history,affecting 1.1million fund shareholders.¥Completing the first and second construction phases ofour new Global Services Center in Bangalore, India, and
hiring 8,700employees to meet increased demand anddeliver more services from India.¥Migrating much of the companyÕs production, disaster
recovery, and development and test systems into a new

data center. The move increases our data storage capabil-

ity,enhances our resiliency,reduces infrastructure pointsof failure and lowers overall cost to the firm.Over this next year, we will continue to massively 
upgrade and streamline our systems and operations.
Highlights include:¥Converting and upgrading all of our operations in theNew York tri-state market, beginning in the second

quarter. This will be one of the most visible bank con-

versions in our industry and will have an impact on all
of our businesses Ð specifically, 
4.8million depositaccounts representing over $190billion, and involvesmore than 400heritage Chase branches and over 3,000teller workstations.¥Providing our retail and wholesale customers with uni-
form Internet platforms, upgrading loan origination sys-
tems and implementing a new mortgage servicing system.¥Substantially improving infrastructure, including datacenters, networks and financial management systems.We cannot build a great company unless we are unrelenting
in our efforts to be a lean and efficient company. This must
become a permanent part of our mindset.Remove barriers to successAs I mentioned before, excessive bureaucracy is lethal. Itslows us down, distracts us from our clients and demoralizesgood employees. We must act with more openness, passion

and urgency. The process of busting bureaucracy never ends,

but what is different now is that our employees are engaged
in challenging the system and solving the problems.Wecontinue to attack bureaucracy and improve all aspectsof our management practices, including:¥Accountability and decision making: Central to the changeswe have undertaken is the realignment of corporate staff.
Now embedded in the businesses are many of the staff
functions Ð like finance and systems Ð that used to be 
concentrated at the corporate level. The realignment gives
our businesses greater ability to manage their support
functions. For staff, better access to the businesses they
support provides them with more knowledge and control.
The restructuring will lead to better accountability, 

transparency and reporting, which in turn will improveexecution and overall corporate risk management.¥Management information and discipline: It is hard to act on the truth if you do not know what it is. We want

managers to have the tools and information to run their
businesses as if they owned them. With this goal inmind, we now produce thousands of increasingly accu-rate reports that provide managers with specific informa-tion on their performance. In addition, we give themtools to proactively eliminate waste and manage their
resources. Better reporting has dramatically improved
the effectiveness of our business review meetings.
Without this information, these meetings are often awaste of time. They now are convened at many levels ofthe company and focus on where we are and need to be,
relative to our own benchmarks and the best performers8ineach business. As a result of these discussions, we areable to establish real targets for our businesses in terms

of growth, margins, returns, market share, etc. 
¥People practices:We have rationalized human resource
processes by eliminating several unnecessary proceduresand personnel to place accountability for managing peo-ple squarely where it belongs Ð with line managers. Forexample, performance reviews have been revamped andsimplified, training has been streamlined and executivecoaches have been eliminated. (We think coaching is the

managerÕs job.) Performance reviews should facilitate,
not prevent, meaningful, honest and comprehensiveresults-oriented exchanges between managers and their
direct reports. Yet over time, the process grew to take onalife of its own and became a hindrance. Now the barri-ers are being removed. In addition, we have created a
forum for discussion of our talent and made people man-agement generally,and diversity in particular,part of theagenda of senior manager meetings across the company.Weremain devoted to our people and their develop-ment, but we will use management accountability,notbureaucratic processes, to prove it. Wewant our peopletocommunicate openly,easily and constructively.Focus resources where we can succeed and winWe have sold or liquidated several businesses that either
did not fit our strategy or did not contribute significantly
to our long-term success. For these reasons, we sold
BrownCo, and businesses in manufactured housing and
recreational vehicles. We also announced the sale of our

insurance business and have dramatically reduced the size of
our auto leasing business.By discontinuing or reducing our commitment to ancillarybusinesses, we availed ourselves of billions of dollars in cap-ital. Weredeployed this capital in businesses where we canwin. For example, we invested in JPMorgan Cazenove, an
investment banking joint venture in the United Kingdom
(which already shows promising results); expanded our
global trade management operations with the purchase of
Vastera; and acquired the Sears Canada private-label credit

card portfolio. In addition, we have recently completed the purchase of a consumer educational loan business,Collegiate Funding Services, that both processes and 
underwrites loans. These are all transactions that positionus for real growth.We have also freed up and redirected our capital to support
innovation. We want to make innovation part of our 
DNA.This does not mean spending hundreds of millions of 
dollars on failed ideas. It does mean, however, that we 
will take calculated risks, knowing that some will fail.Progressive thinking should be reflected in every conversa-
tion, every analysis, and every product and service we provide. We have many new products coming out this year
that we think will fill this bill.The ultimate goal: create organic growthProfitable, sustainable, properly underwritten growth is not a vision. It is the result of excellent management 
discipline, an unrelenting focus on execution, consistent
management of risk, a competitive product set and 
outstanding customer service.The level of effort and expense associated with mergeractivities and systems consolidation has been predictably
huge. So the fact that we were able to absorb the impact Ð
and still cut costs and materially increaseinvestment spend-ing Ð is a source of pride to all of us. What is even more
gratifying, however, is to see evidence of real growth in

most businesses, something that is often a casualty in 
merger consolidations. 
In 2005,real growth Ð albeit not always great growth Ðtook place across the board. Retail increased its deposits,
checking accounts and credit cards. Commercial Banking
achieved growth in leasing, middle market lending and lia-bility balances. Treasury & Securities Services producedmore custody business and had growth in liability balances.Asset & Wealth Management increased the level of assetsunder management. Card Services had growth in new cus-tomers, partners, card receivables and spending. Revenuesin the Investment Bank increased in M&A, asset-backed
securities, high-yield bonds and energy trading.9Equally important, we materially increased investment in areas that will drive futuregrowth. Specifics include: spending hundreds of millions of dollars to open 150newbranches (this will drive growth in 2007and beyond);adding more retail loan officers; hiring additional privatebankers; funding the build-out of our energy and mortgage
trading capabilities in the Investment Bank; and investingin state-of-the-art ÒblinkÓ credit card technology (whichenables customers to use credit cards for small payments
without having to sign anything). Now being piloted in six cities, blink is an investment that has put us at the fore-front of changes in payment systems and card innovation.In addition to making across-the-board investments tobuild our businesses, we are making investments in our
infrastructure that anticipate growth and prepare us to 
successfully manage it for years to come. In 2005,weinvested over $1billion in platform conversions, includingthose for Texas and Card Services. By consolidating and improving platforms, we are elimi-nating the inefficiencies and competitive disadvantages 
associated with multiple operating platforms. In the process,
we will create best-in-class platforms in many areas, such as
global cash clearing, credit card, retail branches and some of
our trading business. We believe that long-term success is

not possible without great systems and operations. They will
drive efficiency, innovation and speed to market. Much of

this will be accomplished by the end of 2006.III.Are we properly managing our risks?
Almost all of our businesses are risk-taking businesses Ðand we spend a great deal of time thinking about all
aspects and types of risk inherent in them, including:¥Consumer and wholesale credit risk¥Market and trading risk¥Interest rate and liquidity risk ¥Reputation and legal risk¥Operational and catastrophic riskThe notable fact about the first three risk areas is that theyare cyclical, and all of them have elements of unpredictabil-
ity. This requires us to be prepared for inevitable cycles. A
company that properly manages itself in bad times is oftenthe winner. For us, sustaining our strength is a strategic
imperative. If we are strong during tough times Ð whenothers are weak Ð then the opportunities can be limitless.Protecting the company is paramount. I will highlight thetypes of risks we focus on to give you a sense of the threat
they pose and how we plan for it.Consumer and wholesale credit riskOver the years, our company has substantially reduced itswholesale credit exposure by using a disciplined process for
extending credit and maximizing return on shareholder
capital. In the consumer market, we have controlled our
risk by limiting the amount of low-prime and sub-prime
credit we issue in our card and other consumer businesses.
In addition, we have decided, at the expense of losing some
volume, not to offer higher-risk, less-tested loan products,such as negatively amortizing Option ARMs. While we are taking the right steps, we estimate that in arecession, consumer and wholesale credit costs could possibly get worse by more than $5billion. This dauntingreality requires us to be prepared and well protected.
Protection #1is having larger and more durable profits to
absorb the losses. We are accomplishing this by increasing

our margins virtually across the board. Protection #
2ismaintaining a fortress balance sheet. We try to understand

and manage every asset and every liability and make sure
that someone is accountable for each one. It also means
maintaining, as much as possible, strong loan loss reserves.Finally,having a well-capitalized firm is critical. With 
Tier 1capital at 8.5%and total capital at 12%, we believe weare there. The important point is that we need to manage
the business, the balance sheet and the investments to earn
adequate returns through the cycles and to be prepared for
surprises. We do not want to realize high returns at the top,

only to give them all back at the worst part of the cycle.10Market and trading risk, and interest rate and liquidity riskWe need to manage our riskÐreturn payoff better in 
2006.In 2005,our trading volatilities were unacceptably high.The $6billion in trading revenues (not a bad result on itsown) was the result of two great quarters and two quarterswhere we underperformed. We think that is too much
volatility, and reducing it is one of our priorities. I believe
wecan accomplish this by continuing to diversify our trad-ing business, by being more disciplined and precise in theexecution of our risk management practices, and by hiringand retaining the best talent. We intend to deliver better,
more consistent results over time, while maintaining ouraggregate risk-taking appetite.The good news is that we have aggressively investedto gener-ate more diversified and consistent returns. For example, we
have added energy trading, and increased our activities inmortgage- and asset-backed securities, and principal invest-ing. Wehave leadership positions in credit markets and inour derivatives franchises, and we will continue to invest in
order to sustain them. And while in the short run, some of
this has actually increased volatility,we are convinced thatour efforts Ð consistently applied Ð will succeed. However,we caution our shareholders not to expect immediate results.Interest rate exposure is another area in which financialservices companies can assume excess risk Ð often at great
peril. As with underwriting credit, good analysis of interest
rate exposure is rooted in facts and evaluations that are
based upon a variety of realistic assumptions and scenarios.
We devote substantial resources to understanding how

interest rate changes will affect our performance. This
analysis should be Ð and will be Ð an ongoing process. We

believe that our company has carefully managed its interest
rate risk so that even dramatic moves in rates of several per-
centage points cannot alone damage the company.
Ahealthy liquidity profile is essential to the ongoing via-bility of any company, financial or otherwise. We use a vari-

ety of tools to maintain a strong liquidity position at the
parent and subsidiary companies, including stress scenarios,
collateral management and a conservative debt structure forthe company overall. We engage in a continual dialogue
with major rating agencies, and we are focused on main-
taining and improving our strong credit ratings.Reputation and legal riskThe litigation costs in business are well known. We are
intensely focused on ways to safeguard the firmÕs reputation
and exposure. They include:¥Senior management endorsement of a code of conductthat all employees must sign and adhere to, as well as a
commitment to provide appropriate training.¥Astrong and independent compliance program thatencourages employees to assist in surfacing compliance
and ethical issues, and identifying money laundering and
terrorist financing activities.¥Amore robust due diligence process focused on securi-ties underwriting transactions, where we have established
centralized oversight of our processes and standards.¥Adisciplined governance process to address conflicts andreview transactions that may present conflicts that could
harm the firm now or in the future.¥Aproductive and open dialogue with our regulators andan ongoing emphasis on staying alert to changes in regu-latory standards.We believe that these actions will mitigate our exposure,
but we recognize, unfortunately, that they will not elimi-

nate it. We have also implemented a disciplined process to

continually review our liabilities and establish appropriate
litigation reserves. While we make every effort to properly
manage the company to reduce litigation and legal costs,
we believe that our shareholders should assume that high
legal costs will continue for the foreseeable future. They
should be viewed, unfortunately, as simply a higher, perma-

nent cost of doing business than in the past.Operational and catastrophic riskThis year, we also made progress in strengthening our oper-
ational risk management programs. We have a consistent

approach across all businesses for defining and aggregating11our exposure to potential operational loss. This approachhelps us determine whether we will be adequately capital-
ized in the event of such a loss. In addition to carefullymanaging operational risk, we need to be prepared forunforeseen disasters. Catastrophic risk can take a variety offorms and significantly impair the performance and theoperations of the company. We have formal disaster recov-
ery and contingency plans in place. They worked well dur-ing Hurricane Katrina and the bombings in London, but
we must continue to refine them as new risks appear.
Whatever the type of risk, the key point is that we try tohave a comprehensive approach to managing it. Thisrequires that the right people be in the right jobs and that
there be clear accountability in each business for managing
risk in addition to rigorous corporate oversight.IV.Do we have the right people and the right 
compensation strategy?At the end of the day,it all comes down to people. We have
great people in this company. As I travel across the United

States and around the world, I have become increasingly
impressed with the talent and potential of our employees.
Rarely can a company assemble this level of creative fire-
power and professional competence.To maximize the collective strength of our people, we will
need to work better as a team. Great teams are not great
because they have star athletes. Great teams are great
because the players have learned how to work together and
focus their collective energy and talent on winning. We are

in the early stages of building a great team. The compensation cycle was difficult but productive thisyear.Weare getting better at relating pay to performance.But there is still room for improvement. Increasingly,wealso must orient ourselves to absolute performanceagainst best-in-class targets, not simply improvement in performance.Wewant to be clear and truthful when we rate ourselves,and fair as well as effective when evaluating performance.Good performance goes beyond individual productivity toinclude group, unit and company performance. Compensation
is not an entitlement; it should reflect an individualÕs and a

teamÕs contribution to helping make this a great company.
We want to be one of the best-paying companies Ð but only
when we are one of the best-performing companies.We also want our employees to feel and act like owners,
which is why stock is an important part of our compensa-tion plans. Today more than 
120,000employees own, orhave an option to own, approximately 14%of shares in thecompany. Executive Committee members are required to

retain 75%of their stock awards as long as they are withthe company. And in general, stock options are awarded on
alimited basis.Wecontinually review our benefits programs to assure thatthey are of value to employees and cost effective. For exam-ple, the company has excellent medical benefits programs,
but we subsidize them more for lower-paid employees than

we do for higher-paid employees. (I hope that this instills a

sense of pride in our managers.)In addition, we no longer match highly paid employees in their 401(k); they have adequate pensions. Wedo notoffer perks to executives like club memberships, financial
planning and leased cars. Weare reducing excessive execu-tive severance plans. But more importantly,we are paying our employees more. Our thinking is simple Ð less compen-
sation through entitlements, more from performance. 
We 
wantto pay more and let our employees spend whatthey earn as they see fit.We need to constantly remind ourselves that the most
important thing we can do for employees is to build a
healthy,vibrant company that treats people with respectand creates opportunity.Morale is not based upon perks;morale builds from respect, growth, innovation and success;from establishing a true meritocracy; from the stock per-forming well; from customers liking to do business with us.Agreat company will provide people with competitivecompensation, the opportunity to benefit as the company
grows and a rewarding career path.12V.Are we a good corporate citizen?
JPMorgan Chase has been Ð and will continue to be Ð 
agood corporate citizen. It is vitally important and enormously gratifying to all of us. Our commitment to our communities is deep, broad and multifaceted. We 
strive to be a great place to work and do business, and oursuccess allows us to give back to the neighborhoods andcities we serve. In one sense, we view ourselves as a small business. If wewere the neighborhood store, we would give kids summer
jobs, sponsor local sports teams and support community-based organizations. We operate this way in many of our
communities around the world, striving to be as supportive
as we can in all the communities we serve. We add value by focusing on issues that are universally
important, including education and community develop-
ment. We dedicate resources to develop signature programs

that help communities overcome the challenges they face in
these areas. We are morally, programmatically and institu-

tionally committed to inclusiveness and diversity. 
JPMorgan Chase contributes more than $
100million annu-ally to support local, national and international initiatives.
Examples include: ¥Chase Early Emergent Leaders 
in Arizona, where we are funding a leadership and training program, and
providing technological assistance and training in 
literacy skills. ¥Corporation for Supportive Housingin Ohio, whereweare helping the homeless as well as individuals recov-ering from drug and alcohol addiction by giving themaccess to 300units of affordable housing and providingthem with the support they need to live independent,
responsible and healthy lives.¥South Bank Centrein London, where we are support-ing music and technology education that will help bringartistic programs to thousands of young people.¥DonorsChoosein Chicago, where we are participatingin an effort that uses the Internet to connect donors
nationwide with underserved classrooms. We are helping
to expand this program for public schools in statesaffected by Hurricane Katrina.¥StreetSquashin New York CityÕs Harlem neighbor-
hood, where we are funding a community youth facilitythat will serve over 1,000students through academic andathletic programs.¥Wilmington Housing Partnership
in Delaware, whereour support is helping develop over 300affordable hous-ing units in our local communities.Our commitment to community involvement goes wellbeyond philanthropy.Across the country and around theworld, we bring this commitment to life through a broad
range of initiatives:¥Community reinvestment.Wehave received outstand-ing ratings under the Community Reinvestment Act. In
the past two years, we have fulfilled $140billion of an$800billion, 10-year commitment in the United Statesto provide community-development loans and invest-
ments, small business loans and consumer mortgages for
lower-income and minority households.
¥Community schools. We support community schools,
which cost-effectively provide students in low-income
communities with access to a broad range of services,
including academic, health and extracurricular activities.
In Chicago, we are partnering with the civic community,

nonprofit groups and the Chicago Public School system
to bring this model to scale. Todate, 120schools (20%)have been converted into community schools.¥Youth opportunity.Weprovide scholarships andinternships to the underprivileged through our Smart Start program in New York City,and intend toexpand the program to Louisiana in 2006.In both theUnited States and the United Kingdom, we work to
place outstanding students of color in summer intern
positions through Sponsors for Educational Opportunity.Weare also a significant contributor to UNCF.