22Dear Fellow Shareholders,
I begin this letter with a sense of gratitude and pride about JPMorgan Chase that 
has only grown stronger over the course of the last decade. Ours is an exceptional 

company with an extraordinary heritage and a promising future. 
Throughout a period of profound political and economic change around the world, 
our company has been steadfast in our dedication to the clients, communities and 

countries we serve while earning a fair return for our shareholders. 
2016 was another breakthrough year for our company. We earned a record $24.7 billion 
in net income on revenue
1 of $99.1 billion, re˜ecting strong underlying performance 
across our businesses. We have delivered record results in six out of the last seven 

years, and we hope to continue to deliver in the future. 
Our stock price is a measure of the progress we have made over the years. This 
progress is a function of continually making important investments, in good times and 

not so good times, to build our capabilities Š people, systems and products. These 
Jamie Dimon,  Chairman and 
 
Chief Executive O˜cer
1 Represents
 managed revenue
33investments drive the future prospects of our company and position it to grow and 
prosper for decades. Whether looking back over ˚ve years, 10 years or since the Bank 

One/JPMorgan Chase merger (approximately 12 years ago), our stock has signi˚cantly 

outperformed the Standard & Poor™s (S&P) 500 and the S&P Financials Index. And this 

is during a time of unprecedented challenges for banks Š both the Great Recession and 
Stock total return analysis
Bank OneS&P 500S&P Financials Index
Performance since becoming CEO of Bank One 
(3/27/2000Š12/31/2016)1Compounded annual gain
11.5%4.3% 3.1%Overall gain
524.6%103.0%65.9%JPMorgan Chase & Co.
S&P 500S&P Financials Index
Performance since the Bank One 

and JPMorgan Chase & Co. merger
(7/1/2004Š12/31/2016)Compounded annual gain
9.5%7.8%2.3%Overall gain
211.0%154.8%32.3%Performance for the period ended 
 December 31, 2016
 Compounded annual gain/(loss)
 One year
34.6% 12.0%22.7% Five years
24.4%14.7%19.4% Ten years
8.6%6.9%(0.4)%These charts show actual returns of the stock, with dividends included, for heritage shareholders of Bank One and JPMorgan Chase & Co. 
vs. the Standard & Poor™s 500 Index (S&P 500) and the Standard & Poor™s Financials Index (S&P Financials Index).
1 On March 27, 2000, Jamie Dimon was hired as CEO of Bank One.
Earnings, Diluted Earnings per Share and Return on Tangible Common Equity
2004Œ2016
($ in billions, except per share and ratio data)
˜˜˜˜˜˜˜˜˜˜˜˜˚˛˝˜˙ˆˇ˜˜˜˜˜˜˜˜ˆˇ˝˜˚˛˝˜˙˛˝˜ˆ˝˛˚˜ˆˆ˛ˇ˜ˆˇ˛˚˜ˆ˘˛ˆ˜ˆˇ˛˘ˆ˛ˇ˜˚˛˚˜ˆ˚˛˚˜˚˛ˇ˜ˆ˜˜˚˛˜˚˛˜ˆ˜˛˜˛˘˜˚˛˚˙˜˝˛ˆ˜˚˛˜˝˜˛˜˛ˆ˘ˆ


ˆ˝ˆ˝ˆ˝ˆˆ˜˝˛44the extraordinarily di˛cult legal, regulatory and political environments that followed. 
We have long contended that these factors explained why bank stock price/earnings 

ratios were appropriately depressed. And we believe the anticipated reversal of many 

negatives and the expectation of a more business-friendly environment, coupled with 

our sustained, strong business results, are among the reasons our stock price has done 

so well this past year. 
As you know, we believe tangible book value per share is a good measure of the value 
we have created for our shareholders. If we believe our asset and liability values are 

appropriate Š and we do Š and if we believe we can continue to deploy this capital at 

an approximate 15% return on tangible equity, which we do, then our company should 

ultimately be worth considerably more than tangible book value. If you look at the 

chart below, you™ll see that tangible book value ﬁanchorsﬂ the stock price.
In the last ˚ve years, we have bought back $25.7 billion in stock. In prior years, I have 
explained why buying back our stock at tangible book value per share was a no-
brainer. While the ˚rst and most important use of capital is to invest in growth, buying 
back stock should also be considered when you are generating excess capital. We do 
Tangible Book Value and Average Stock Price per Share
2004Œ2016
2016201520142013201220112010200920082007200620052004˜Tangible book value    ˜Average stock price$15.35$16.45$18.88$21.96$22.52$27.09$30.12$33.62$38.68$40.72$44.60$48.13$51.44$38.70$36.07$43.93$47.75$39.83$35.49$40.36$39.36$39.22$51.88$58.17$63.83$65.6255Bank One/JPMorgan Chase & Co. tangible book value per share performance vs. S&P 500
Bank One(A)S&P 500 (B)Relative Results
(A) Š (B)Performance since becoming CEO of Bank One 
(3/27/2000Š12/31/2016)1Compounded annual gain
12.2% 4.3% 7.9%Overall gain
528.1%103.0%425.1%JPMorgan Chase & Co.
(A)S&P 500(B)Relative Results
(A) Š (B)Performance since the Bank One 

and JPMorgan Chase & Co. merger

(7/1/2004Š12/31/2016)Compounded annual gain
13.2%7.8%5.4%Overall gain
373.6%154.8%218.8%Tangible book value over time captures the company™s use of capital, balance sheet and profitability. In this chart, we are looking at 
heritage Bank One shareholders and JPMorgan Chase & Co. shareholders. The chart shows the increase in tangible book value per share; 
 it is an after-tax number assuming all dividends were retained vs. the Standard & Poor™s 500 Index (S&P 500), which is a pre-tax number 

with dividends reinvested.
1 On March 27, 2000, Jamie Dimon was hired as CEO of Bank One.
currently have excess capital. Five years ago, we o˝ered the example of our buying 
back stock at tangible book value and having earnings per share and tangible book 

value per share substantially higher than they otherwise would have been just four 

years later. While we prefer buying our stock at tangible book value, we think it makes 

sense to do so at or around two times tangible book value for reasons similar to those 

we™ve expressed in the past. If we buy back a big block of stock this year (using analyst 

earnings estimates for the next ˚ve years), we would expect earnings per share in ˚ve 

years to be 3%Š4% higher, and tangible book value would be virtually unchanged. 
In this letter, I discuss the issues highlighted on the next page Š which describe many 
of our successes and opportunities, as well as our challenges and responses. Like last 

year™s letter, we have organized much of the content around some of the key questions 

we have received from shareholders and other interested parties. 
66I.  The JPMorgan Chase franchise
1. Why do we consider our four major business franchises strong and market leading? 
2.
 Why are we optimistic about our future growth opportunities?
3.
 What are some technology and ˚ntech initiatives that you™re most excited about? 
4.
 How do we protect customers and their sensitive information while enabling them 
to share data? 
5.
 What are your biggest geopolitical risks?
6.
 Although banks and other large companies remain unpopular with some people, 

you often say how proud you are of JPMorgan Chase. Why? 
 II.  Regulatory reform
1. Talk about the strength and safety of the ˚nancial system and whether Too Big 
 to Fail has been solved. 
2.
 How and why should capital rules be changed?
3.
 How do certain regulatory policies impact money markets?
4.
 How has regulation a˝ected monetary policy, the ˜ow of bank credit and the
 
 growth of the economy? 
5.
 How can we reform mortgage markets to give quali˚ed borrowers access to the 

credit they need? 
6.
 How can we reduce complexity and create a more coherent regulatory system?
7.
 How can we harmonize regulations across the globe?
III.  Public policy
1. The United States of America is truly an exceptional country.
2.
 But it is clear that something is wrong Š and it™s holding us back.
3.
 How can we start investing in our people to help them be more productive and 
share in the opportunities and rewards of our economy?
4.
 What should our country be doing to invest in its infrastructure? How does the lack 

of a plan and investment hurt our economy?
5.
 How should the U.S. legal and regulatory systems be reformed to incentivize 

investment and job creation?
6.
 What price are we paying for the lack of understanding about business and 
 
free enterprise?
7.
 Strong collaboration is needed between business and government.
Page 7
Page 7
Page 9
Page 9
Page 10
Page 11  
Page 12
 
Page 17
Page 18
Page 20 
Page 23
Page 24 
Page 25
Page 30
Page 31
Page 32
Page 32
Page 32
Page 39
Page 40

Page 41

Page 42 
Page 45
771. Why do we consider our four major business franchises strong and market leading?
The chart below and those on page 8 speak 
for themselves. Looking closely at the actual 

numbers, it™s clear that every business is 

among the top performers ˜nancially Œ 

whether you look at e˚ciency (overhead 

ratios) or return on equity (ROE) vs. the best 

in that business. More important, customer 

satisfaction is at the center of everything 

we do. Each business has gained market 

share Œ which is possible only when you are 

improving customer satisfaction and your 
I.THE JPMORGAN CHASE FRANCHISE products and services relative to the competi
-
tion. And each business continues to inno
-
vate, from customer-facing apps, to straight-

through processing, to digitized trading 

services or payment systems. Our business 

leaders do a great job describing their busi-
nesses, and I strongly encourage you to read 

their letters following this year™s Letter to 

Shareholders. Each will give you a feel for 

why we are optimistic about our future.
 E˜ciency
Returns
JPM 2016 overhead
ratios
Best-in-class 
peer overhead 
ratios
1JPM target
 
overhead 
ratios
JPM 2016
ROE2Best-in-class 
peer ROTCE
3JPM target 

ROTCE
2 (+/-)Consumer & 
Community 

Banking
55%56%WFCŒCB
~50%18%14%WFC
20%Corporate & 

Investment 
 
Bank54%54%BACŒGB & BACŒGM
 55%+/-16%13%BAC-GB & BACŒGM
14%Commercial 

Banking
39%39%PNC35%16%12%FITB15%Asset & Wealth 

Management
70%65%CSŒPB & BLK70%24%24%BACŒGWIM & TROW
25%JPMorgan Chase compared with peers
4 Overhead ratios
ROTCE
 JPM 56%  
WFC
 59% BAC                                                                65%
 C 58% GS                                                                 66% MS                                                                        74% JPM 13%WFC
 14%
 BAC
 10% C 8% GS 10% MS 9%1  Best-in-class overhead ratio represents comparable JPMorgan Chase (JPM) peer segments: Wells Fargo Community Banking 
(WFCŒCB), Bank of America Global Banking and Global Markets (BACŒGB & BACŒGM), PNC Corporate and Institutional Banking 
 (PNC), Credit Suisse Private Banking (CSŒPB) and BlackRock (BLK).
2  JPM 2016 ROE re˚ects allocation of common equity to each business. JPM target ROTCE re˚ects the 2017 change in capital 
allocation methodology from common equity to tangible common equity, resulting in LOB equity being more in line with peers.
3  Best-in-class ROTCE is based on net income minus preferred stock dividends of comparable JPM peers and peer segments 
 
when available: Wells Fargo & Company (WFC), BACŒGB & BACŒGM, Fifth Third Bank (FITB), Bank of America Global Wealth 
 and Investment Management (BACŒGWIM) and T. Rowe Price (TROW).
4  
WFC, 
Bank of America Corporation (BAC), Citigroup Inc. (C), Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (GS), Morgan Stanley (MS).
ROTCE = Return on tangible common equity
JPMorgan Chase Is in Line with Best-in-Class Peers in Both E˜ciency and Returns
Target
~15%
Target
55%+/Œ
88Client Franchises Built Over the Long Term
200620152016Consumer &
Community

Banking
Deposits market share
1 # of top 50 Chase markets 
   
where we are #1 (top 3)
Average deposits growth rate
Active mobile customers growth rate
Credit card sales market share
2Merchant processing volume
3  ($ in billions)3.6% 11 (25)8.0% NM15.9%  $6617.9%  12 (40)9.0%20.0%21.1% 
 $9498.3% 14 (38)10.0%16.0%21.5% 
 $1,063 Relationships with ~50% of U.S. households

 Industry leading deposit growth
12 #1 U.S. credit card issuer
13 #1 U.S. co-brand credit card issuer
14 #1 rated mobile banking app
15  #1 U.S. credit and debit payments volume
16  #2 merchant acquirer
17Corporate &
 Investment

BankGlobal Investment Banking fees
4  Market share
4Total Markets revenue
5 Market share
5 FICC
5  Market share
5 Equities
5  Market share
5 #28.7% #86.3% #77.0% #85.0% #17.9% #19.7% #110.3% #38.8% #18.1% #111.4% #112.0% #210.1% >80% of Fortune 500 companies do business with us
 #1 in both N.A. and EMEA Investment Banking fees
18 #1 in Global Debt, Equity and Equity-related
18 #1 in Global Long-Term Debt and Loan Syndications
18 #1 in FICC productivity
19 Top 3 Custodian globally with AUC of $20.5 trillion
20 #1 in USD clearing volumes with 19.0% share in 2016
21Commercial 

Banking
# of Metropolitan Statistical Areas with
  Middle Market banking presence
6Multifamily lending
7 Gross Investment Banking 
 
 revenue ($ in billions)
 % of North America 
   
Investment Banking fees
 
 26 #28 
 $0.7 16%  45 #1 
 $2.2 36%  47 #1 
 $2.3 40% Unparalleled platform capabilities Š competitive advantage
 #1 in perceived customer satisfaction
22 Top 3 in overall Middle Market, large Middle Market 
 and Asset Based Lending Bookrunner
23  Industry-leading credit performance Š 5th straight year of net 
recoveries or single digit NCO rate
Asset & Wealth 
Management
Mutual funds with a 4/5 star rating
8Ranking of long-term client asset ˜ows
9   Active AUM market share
10North America Private Bank 
(Euromoney)
 Client assets market share
11 119
 NA 1.8% #1 3.0% 214 #4 2.6%#1 4.4% 220 #2 2.5%#1 4.4% 83% of 10-year long-term mutual fund AUM in top 2 quartiles
24 Positive client asset ˜ows every year since 2004
 #2 Global Private Bank and #1 LatAm Private Bank
25 Revenue and long-term AUM growth ~80% since 2006
 Doubled WM client assets (1.6x industry rate) since 2006
10For footnoted information, refer to slide 39 in the 2017 Firm Overview Investor Day presentation, which is available on JPMorgan Chase & Co.™s website 
 (http://investor.shareholder.com/jpmorganchase/presentations.cfm), under the heading Investor Relations, Events & Presentations, JPMorgan Chase 2017 Investor Day, 
 
Firm Overview, and on Form 8-K as furnished to the SEC on February 28, 2017, which is available on the SEC™s website (www.sec.gov).
NM = Not meaningful
NA = Not available
Increasing Customer Satisfaction
Other important metrics
 Increasing market share is a sign of increasing customer satisfaction
 Chase grew its Business Banking primary bank market share from ~6% in 2012 to ~9% 
 in 2016 Chase improved its performance in the J.D. Power Primary Mortgage Origination and Servicer 
Satisfaction Studies Š ranking #5 in originations and #6 in servicing. Chase originations and 
servicing rankings went up by 2 and 4 spots, respectively, compared to the 2015 rankings
  In Total Markets, J.P. Morgan ranked #1; in Fixed Income, #1, continuously since 2010; and 
 
in Equities, #2, having increased its share to 10.1% from 8.8% last year
3   Institutional Investor
 magazine surveys large investors every year. In 2016, J.P. Morgan 
 Research team rankings were: #1 for All-America Equity; #1 for All-America Fixed Income; 
 and #1 for All-Europe Fixed Income. With the future focus on emerging markets, J.P. Morgan 
Research ranked #2 in the survey for Emerging Markets EMEA Research
 Overall client satisfaction for CB clients has increased from 87% to 91% from 2010 to 
 
2016, according to our proprietary client survey
 J.P. Morgan ranks as the #1 private bank in the U.S. for eight consecutive years and #1 in 
 Latin America for four consecutive years
4 J.P. Morgan ranks as the Leading Pan-European Fund Management Firm for seven 
 consecutive years
51 Source: J.D. Power U.S. Retail Banking Satisfaction Study
2 Big banks defined as top six U.S. banks.
3 Market share and rank is based on Coalition FY 16 results and reflects J.P. Morgan™s share of Coalition™s Global 
Industry Revenue Pool. Total industry pool is based on J.P. Morgan™s internal business structure. 
4 Source: 
Euromoney,
 2017 
5 Source: Thomson Reuters Extel, 2016
U.S. retail banking satisfaction
1201620152014201320122011Chase
Industry average 
Big banks2Regional banks 
Midsized banks
          992.
 Why are we optimistic about our future growth opportunities?
We believe we have substantial opportuni
-ties in the decades ahead to drive organic 

growth in our company. We have con˜dence 

in the underlying growth in the U.S. and 

global economies, which will fuel the growth 

in our customer base Œ consumer deposits, 

assets under management and small to large 
clients globally. This growth will obviously 

be faster in emerging markets than in devel
-
oped markets Œ and we are well-positioned 

to serve both. In addition, we believe we 

can continue to gain share in many markets 
and, over time, add new, relevant products. 
This can drive organic growth for years. 

Capturing this growth is very basic:
Selectively adding investment bankers 

and private bankers around the world
Bringing consumer and commercial 
banking branches and capabilities to more 

places in the United StatesAdding wholesale branches overseas and 

carefully expanding into new countries
Adding wholesale and Private Bank clients 

as they grow into our target space
Equally important is using technology and 

˜ntech to do a better job serving clients and 

to grow our businesses Œ with better products 

and services. You can read more about our 

big data, machine learning, payment systems, 

cybersecurity and electronic trading on pages 

47Œ68 described by our senior executives. But 

I do want to highlight a few items in the next 

question that pertain to these topics.
3.
 What are some technology and ˚ntech initiatives that you™re most excited about?
One of the reasons we™re performing well as 

a company is we never stopped investing in 

technology Œ this should never change. In 

2016, we spent more than $9.5 billion in 
 
technology ˜rmwide, of which approxi
-
mately $3 billion is dedicated toward new 

initiatives. Of that amount, approximately 

$600 million is spent on emerging ˜ntech 

solutions Œ which include building and 

improving digital and mobile services and 

partnering with ˜ntech companies. The 

reasons we invest so much in technology 

(whether it™s digital, big data or machine 

learning) are simple: to bene˜t customers 
with better, faster and often cheaper prod
-
ucts and services, to reduce errors and to 

make the ˜rm more e˚cient.
We are developing great new products. 
We are currently developing some exciting 

new products and services, which we will be 

adding to our suite and rolling out later this 
year, including: 
End-to-end digital banking Œ The ability to 
open an account and complete the majority 

of transactions on a mobile phone.
Investment advice and self-directed 

investing Œ Online vehicles for both indi
-
vidual retirement and non-retirement 

accounts, providing easy-to-use (and 

inexpensive) automated advice, as well as 

enabling our customers to buy and sell 

stocks and bonds, etc. (again inexpensively).
Electronic trading and other online services 

(e.g., cash management) in our Corporate 

& Investment Bank and Asset & Wealth 

Management businesses Œ O˛ering our 

clients a more robust digital platform. 
1010We are investing in data and technology to 
improve the ˚nancial health of low-income 
households. Over the last two years, the JPMorgan Chase 
Institute has helped identify some of the 
most pressing ˜nancial challenges facing 

American households, such as their di˚culty 

managing income and expense volatility. 

We are using that data to select and support 

innovative ˜ntech companies and nonpro˜ts 

that are designing solutions to address these 
challenges. One example of these e˛orts 

is JPMorgan Chase™s Financial Solutions 

Lab, which, in partnership with the Center 

for Financial Services Innovation, seeks to 

facilitate the next generation of ˜ntech prod
-
ucts to help consumers manage their daily 
˜nances and meet their long-term goals. 

Highlights of the initiative include: 
To date, the Lab has helped support more 
than 18 ˜ntech companies working to 

improve the ˜nancial health of more than 

1 million Americans. One example is Digit, 

an automated savings tool that identi
-
˜es small amounts of money that can be 

moved into savings based on spending 

and income. To date, it has helped Ameri
-
cans save more than $350 million.
Lab winners have raised more than $100 

million in follow-on capital.
In 2017, we launched a new competition 

seeking innovative ˜ntech solutions to 

promote the ˜nancial health of popula-
tions often overlooked, such as people of 

color, individuals with disabilities and low-

income women. 
We are successfully collaborating with other 
companies to deliver ˚ntech solutions.
Whether it is consumer payment systems 
(Zelle), mortgages (Roostify), auto ˜nance 

(TrueCar), small business lending (OnDeck 

Capital) or communications systems 
(Symphony), we are successfully collabo
-
rating with some excellent ˜ntech companies 

to dramatically improve our digital and other 

customer o˛erings. I™d like to highlight just 

two new exciting areas:
Developer Services API store Œ By 
providing direct interfaces with our appli
-
cations (fully controlled, of course), we are 

enabling entrepreneurs, partners, ˜ntech 

companies and clients to build new prod-
ucts or services dedicated to speci˜c needs.
Bill payment and business services Œ 

While I can™t reveal much at the moment, 

su˚ce it to say there are some interesting 

developments coming as we integrate our 

capabilities with those of other companies.
4.
 How do we protect customers and their sensitive information while enabling them to share data?
For years, we have been describing the risks 

Œ to banks and customers Œ that arise when 
customers freely give away their bank pass
-
codes to third-party services, allowing virtu
-
ally unlimited access to their data. Customers 
often do not know the liability this may 

create for them, if their passcode is misused, 

and, in many cases, they do not realize how 

their data are being used. For example, access 

to the data may continue for years after 

customers have stopped using the third-party 

services. 
We recently completed a new arrangement 

with Intuit, which we think represents 

an important step forward. In addition to 

protecting the bank, the customers and 

even the third party (in this case, Intuit), it 

allows customers to share data Œ how and 
when they want. Under this arrangement, 

customers can choose whatever they would 

like to share and opting to turn these selec
-
tions on or o˛ as they see ˜t. The data will 

be ﬁpushedﬂ to Intuit, eliminating the need 

for sharing bank passcodes, which protects 

the bank and our customers and reduces 
potential liabilities on Intuit™s part as well. 

We are hoping this sets a new standard for 

data-sharing relationships. 
11115.
 What are your biggest geopolitical risks?
Banks have to manage a lot of risks Œ from 
credit and trading risks to technological, 

operational, conduct and cybersecurity risks. 

But in addition to those, we have exposures 

around the world, which are subject to 

normal cyclical and recession risks, as well 
 
as to complex geopolitical risks.
There are always geopolitical risks, and 
you can rest assured we are continuously 

reviewing, analyzing and stress testing them 

to ensure that our company can endure them. 

We always try to make certain that we can 

handle the worst of all cases Œ importantly, 

without disrupting the e˛ective operation of 

the company and its service to our clients. We 

think these geopolitical risks currently are in 

a heightened state Œ that is, beyond what we 

might consider normal. There are two speci˜c 

risks I want to point out:
Brexit and the increasing risk to the European 
Union (EU). Regarding Brexit, a key concern is to make 
sure our company is prepared to support our 

clients on day one Œ the ˜rst day after the 

actual Brexit occurs, approximately two years 

from now. We are con˜dent we will be able 

to develop and expand the capabilities that 

our EU subsidiaries and branches will need 

to serve our clients properly in Europe under 

EU law. This will require acquiring regulatory 

approvals, transferring certain technologies 

and moving some people. On day one, we 

need to perform all of our critical functions 

at our standards. For example, underwriting 

debt and equity, moving money and accepting 

deposits, and safeguarding the custody assets 

for all of our European clients, including 

many sovereigns themselves. We must be 

prepared to do this assuming a hard exit by 

the United Kingdom Œ it would be irrespon
-
sible to presume otherwise. While this does 

not entail moving many people in the next 

two years, we do suspect that following Brexit, 

there will be constant pressure by the EU not 
to ﬁoutsourceﬂ services to the United Kingdom 

but to continue to move people and capabili
-
ties into EU subsidiaries.
We hope that the advent of Brexit would lead 
the EU to focus on ˜xing its issues Œ immi
-
gration, bureaucracy, the ongoing loss of 

sovereign rights and labor in˝exibility Œ and 

thereby pulling the EU and the monetary 

union closer together. Our fear, however, is 

that it could instead result in political unrest 

that would force the EU to split apart. The 

unraveling of the EU and the monetary union 

could have devastating economic and political 

e˛ects. While we are not predicting this will 

happen, the probabilities have certainly gone 

up Œ and we will keep a close eye on the situa
-
tion in Europe over the next several years. 
De-globalization, Mexico and China.
Anti-globalization sentiment is growing in 
parts of the world today, usually expressing 

itself in anti-trade and anti-immigration posi-
tions. (I™m not going to write about immigra
-
tion in this letter Œ we have always supported 

proper immigration Œ it is a vital part of the 
strength of America, and, properly done, it 

enhances the economy and the vitality of 

the country.) We do not believe globalization 

will reverse course Œ we believe trade has 

been absolutely critical for growth around 

the world and has bene˜ted billions of 

people. While there are some issues with our 

trade policies that need to be ˜xed, poorly 

conceived anti-trade policies could be quite 

disruptive, particularly with two of our key 

trading partners: Mexico and China. 
The trade deal with Mexico through NAFTA 
is simpler than the one with China. (In full 
disclosure, JPMorgan Chase is a major inter
-national bank in Mexico, with revenue of 

more than $400 million, serving Mexican, 

American and international clients who do 
business there.) Mexico is a long-standing 

peaceful neighbor, and it is wholly in our 

country™s interest that Mexico be a pros
-
perous nation. This actually reduces immi
-
gration issues (there are now more Mexicans 
1212going back to Mexico than coming into the 
United States). Our trade agreement with 
Mexico helps ensure that the young democ
-
racy in Mexico is not hijacked by populist 

and anti-American leaders (like Chavez did 

in Venezuela). While there are some clear, 

identi˜able problems with NAFTA, I believe 

they will be worked out in a way that is fair 

and bene˜cial for both sides. The logic to do 

so is completely compelling.
China is far more complex. (Again, in full 
disclosure, we have a major international 

presence in China, with revenue of approxi
-
mately $700 million, serving Chinese, 

American and international clients who do 
business in that country.) The United States 

has some serious trade issues with China, 

which have grown over the years Œ from 
cybersecurity and the protection of intel-
lectual property to tari˛s, non-tari˛ trade 

barriers and non-ful˜llment of World Trade 

Organization obligations. However, there 

is no inevitable or compelling reason that 
China and America have to clash Œ in fact, 

improving political and economic relation
-
ships can be good for both parties. So while 

the issues here are not easy, I am hopeful 

they can be resolved in a way that is fair and 

constructive for the two countries.
6.
 Although banks and other large companies remain unpopular with some people, you often 

say how proud you are of JPMorgan Chase. Why? 
I ˜rmly believe the qualities embedded in 

JPMorgan Chase today Œ the knowledge and 

cohesiveness of our people, our deep client 

relationships, our technology, our strategic 

thinking and our global presence Œ cannot 
be replicated. While we take nothing for 

granted, as long as we continue to do our 

jobs well and continue to drive our company 

forward, we think we can be a leader for our 

industry and the communities we serve for 

decades to come. There are times when I 

am bursting with pride with what we have 

accomplished for our clients, communities 

and countries around the world Œ let me 

count (some of) the ways:
We are strong and steadfast and are there for our 
clients in good times and bad. 
In the toughest of times, we maintained 
a healthy and vibrant company that was 

able to do its job Œ we did not need govern
-
ment support and, in fact, we consistently 

provided credit and capital to our clients and 

assistance to our government throughout 

the crisis. I want to remind our shareholders 

that we continued to lend not at the much 

higher prevailing market rates at that time 

but at existing bank rates. These were far 

below market rates because our clients relied 

on us Œ we were their lender of last resort. 

JPMorgan Chase was and will be a Rock of 

Gibraltar in the best and worst of times for 

our clients around the world.
1313We have extraordinary capabilities Š both our 
people and our technology. 
Ultimately, our people are our most impor
-tant assets Œ and they are exceptional. Their 
knowledge, their capabilities and their 

relationships are what drive everything else, 

including our technology and our innovation. 

They partner well with each other around 

the world, and they are deeply trusted by our 
clients and within our communities. We all 

owe them an enormous debt. They are the 

ones accomplishing all the things you are 

reading about in this Annual Report.
Our fortress balance sheet and the strength 
of our people were never more vividly 

evident than during the darkest hours of the 

˜nancial crisis. I was in awe of the tremen
-
dous e˛ort our people made (thousands 

of people, seven days a week for months) 
New and Renewed Credit and Capital for Our Clients
at December 31,








š˙
˜˚˛˝˚˛

˜
˜˚˛˚
˜˚˛˚
˜˚˛˝
˜˚˛˙
˜˚˛ˆ
˜˚˛ˇ
˜˚˛˘
˜˚˛˙
˜˚
˜˙
˜ˆ
˜˙
˜˙
˜ˇˇ˘ˆ
˜ˇ˝ˆ
˜˘˘˙


1414to acquire and assimilate Bear Stearns and Washington Mutual Œ thereby saving 30,000 

jobs and avoiding the devastation of commu
-
nities that would have happened if those 

companies had been allowed to fail. Our 

company went above and beyond the call of 

duty during the height of the crisis, including 

lending $87 billion to a bankrupt Lehman 
to facilitate, as much as possible, an orderly 

unwind of its assets. In those dark days, we 

were the only bank willing to commit to 

lending $4 billion to the state of California, 

$2 billion to the state of New Jersey and $1 

billion to the state of Illinois to keep those 

states strong. None of these actions had to 

be taken, and they were made at some risk 

to JPMorgan Chase. We simply were acting 

to do our part to try to stop the crisis from 
getting worse.
We try to be outstanding corporate citizens. 
We believe in being great corporate citizens 

Œ in how we treat our employees and care 

for our clients and communities. Let me give 

some examples to illustrate this point:





We value our employees at 

JPMorgan Chase, and we are committed 

to helping them succeed. This past year, 

we announced that we will increase our 

minimum wages Œ mostly for entry-level 

bank tellers and customer service repre-
sentatives Œ to between $12.00 and $16.50 

an hour (depending on where these 
employees live). This will increase wages 

for approximately 18,000 employees. 

We believe this pay increase is the right 

thing to do, and, above all, it enables more 

people to begin to share in the rewards 
Assets Entrusted to Us by Our Clients
at December 31,
($ in billions)1 Represents assets under management, as well as custody, brokerage, administration and deposit accounts.
2 Represents activities associated with the safekeeping and servicing of assets.
˜Client assets    ˜Wholesale deposits    ˜Consumer depositsDeposits and client assets1201620152014201320122011 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016$1,883$730$398$2,061                  $755$439$2,329$824$464$2,376$861$503$3,255$3,617$3,740 $2,353$2,427$722$757 $558$618$3,633 $3,802   $16,870  $18,835  $20,485  $20,549 $19,943   $20,520$3,011 Assets under custody21515of our success. Remember, many of these 
employees soon move on to even higher 

paying jobs. 
We will also continue to invest in 
employee bene˜ts and training opportu
-
nities so that our workers can continue 

to increase their skills and advance their 

careers. Our comprehensive bene˜ts 

package, including healthcare and retire
-
ment savings, on average, is valued at 

$11,000 per year. Our total investment in 

training and development is approximately 

$325 million a year. Together, these e˛orts 

help our employees support their fami
-
lies, advance their careers and promote 

economic growth in our communities.



We have 
more than 243,000 employees globally with 

over 167,000 in the United States. Women 

represent 50% of our employees. Recently, 

Oliver Wyman, a leading global manage
-
ment consulting ˜rm, issued a report 

stating that it would be 30 years before 

women reach 30% Executive Committee 

representation within global ˜nancial 

services. So you might be surprised to ˜nd 

out that women already represent 30% of 

my direct reports and approximately 30% 

of our company™s senior leadership globally. 

They run major businesses Œ several units 

on their own would be among Fortune 

1000 companies. In addition to having 

three women on our Operating Committee 

Œ who run Asset & Wealth Management, 

Finance and Legal Œ some of our other busi
-
nesses and functions headed by women 

include Consumer Banking, Credit Card, 

U.S. Private Bank, U.S. Mergers & Acquisi
-
tions, Global Equity Capital Markets, 
 Global Research, Regulatory A˛airs, Global 
 Philanthropy, our U.S. branch network, 
 our Controller and ˜rmwide Marketing. 
 I believe we have some of the best women 

leaders in the corporate world globally. In 

addition to gender diversity, 48% of our 

˜rm™s population is ethnically diverse in 

the United States, and we are in more than 

60 countries around the world. Diversity 

means running a company where people 
are respected, trusted and given equal 

opportunity to contribute and raise their 

ideas and voices. 
But there is one area in particular where 
we simply have not met the standards 

JPMorgan Chase has set for itself Œ and that 

is in increasing African-American talent 

at the ˜rm. While we think our e˛ort to 

attract and retain black talent is as good 

as at most other companies, it simply is 

not good enough. Therefore, in 2016, we 

introduced a new ˜rmwide initiative called 

Advancing Black Leaders
. This initiative is 

dedicated to helping us better attract and 

recruit external black talent while retaining 

and developing the talent within the 

company. And we are proud of our e˛orts 

this past year Œ we increased the number of 

black employees at the o˚cer level (through 

both internal promotions and external new 

hires), we focused on the pipeline of junior 

talent, and we increased the number at the 

senior o˚cer and vice president level. We 

plan to continue to make progress on this 

front in the years to come. 




We want to continue to update 

you on how JPMorgan Chase has helped 

position military members, veterans and 

their families. Our program is centered on 

facilitating success in their post-service 

lives primarily through employment and 

retention. In 2011, JPMorgan Chase and 

10 other companies launched the 100,000 

Jobs Mission, setting a goal of collectively 

hiring 100,000 veterans. The initiative 

now includes more than 200 companies, 

has collectively hired nearly 400,000 

veterans, and is focused on collectively 

hiring 1 million people. JPMorgan Chase 

alone has hired more than 11,000 veterans 

since 2011. We hope you feel as good 

about this initiative as we do.




 We take this responsibility very 

seriously, and, over the last decade, not 

only have we more than doubled our 

philanthropic giving from approximately 
1616$100 million to approximately $250 
million in 2016, but we have dramati
-
cally increased our support with human 

capital, collaboration, data and manage
-
ment expertise. Our head of Corporate 

Responsibility talks about our signi˜cant 

measures in more detail in his letter, but 

I will highlight two initiatives below:
 ˚We provide tremendous support 

to cities and communities Œ espe-
cially those left behind Œ and the 
best example is our work in Detroit.

JPMorgan Chase has been doing busi
-
ness in Detroit for more than 80 years, 

and we watched as this iconic American 

city was engulfed in economic turmoil 

after years of decline. Just as Detroit 

was declaring bankruptcy, our company 

redoubled its e˛orts to help and, in 

2014, announced our most comprehen
-
sive initiative to date Œ a $100 million 

investment in Detroit to help accelerate 

the city™s recovery. 
We are making strategic, coordinated 
investments focused on creating 

economically inclusive and revital
-
ized neighborhoods, preparing people 

with the skills needed for today™s 

high-quality jobs and providing small 

businesses with the capital they need 

to grow and succeed. This includes our 

investment in the Strategic Neighbor
-hoods Fund, which brings together 

community developers and dedicated 

resources to create and maintain a˛ord
-
able housing and deliver services to 

targeted communities. We also seeded 

the city™s ˜rst nonpro˜t real estate 

development ˜rm focused exclusively 

on creating and preserving a˛ordable 

housing in Detroit™s neighborhoods. In 

2015, we helped create the $6.5 million 

Entrepreneurs of Color Fund with the 
Kellogg Foundation and Detroit Devel
-
opment Fund to bring critical ˜nancing 
and technical assistance to underserved 

minority- and community-based small 
businesses. In its ˜rst year, the Fund 

deployed almost $3 million in capital 

through more than 30 loans. We are 
also putting our talented employees 

to work in Detroit through the Detroit 

Service Corps. Since 2014, 68 JPMorgan 

Chase employees from 10 countries 

dedicated three intensive weeks to 

16 Detroit nonpro˜ts, helping them 

analyze challenges, solve problems 

and improve their chances for success. 

Detroit is making incredible progress 
as a result of the unprecedented spirit 
of engagement and cooperation among 

the city™s leaders, business commu
-
nity and nonpro˜t sectors. JPMorgan 

Chase is proud to be part of Detroit™s 

resurgence, and we believe a thriving 

Detroit economy will become a shining 

example of American resilience and 

ingenuity at work.
 ˚And more broadly, we created solutions 

for one of our country™s biggest chal
-
lenges Œ training the world™s work
-
force in the skills needed to compete 

in today™s economy. Through several 

targeted initiatives, JPMorgan Chase is 

investing over $325 million in demand-

driven workforce development initia
-
tives around the world. Our programs 

build stronger labor markets that 

create economic opportunity, focusing 

on middle-skill jobs Œ positions that 
require a high school education, and 

often specialized training or certi˜ca-
tions, but not a college degree. These 

jobs Œ surgical technologists, diesel 

mechanics, help desk technicians 

and more Œ o˛er good wages and the 

chance to move up the economic ladder. 

Our goal is to increase the number of 
workers who have access to career path
-
ways, whether they are adults looking 

to develop new skills or younger 

workers starting to prepare for careers 

during high school and ending with 

postsecondary degrees or credentials 
aligned with good-paying, high-demand 

jobs. We are very proud that we can be 

a bridge between businesses and job 

seekers to support an economy that 

creates opportunity for everyone.
1717II.We had a severe ˜nancial crisis followed 
by needed reform, and our ˜nancial system 

is now stronger and more resilient as a 

result. During and since the crisis, we™ve 

always supported thoughtful, e˛ective 

regulation, not simply more or less. But it 

is an understatement to say improvements 

could be made. The regulatory environ
-
ment is unnecessarily complex, costly and 

sometimes confusing. No rational person 

could think that everything that was done 

was good, fair, sensible and e˛ective, or 

coherent and consistent in creating a safer 

and stronger system. We believe (and many 

studies show) that poorly conceived and 

uncoordinated regulations have damaged 

our economy, inhibiting growth and jobs Œ 

and this has hurt the average American. We 

are not looking to throw out the entirety of 

Dodd-Frank or other rules (many of which 

were not speci˜cally prescribed in Dodd-

Frank). It is, however, appropriate to open 

up the rulebook in the light of day and 

rework the rules and regulations that don™t 

work well or are unnecessary. Rest assured, 

we will be responsibly and reasonably 

engaged on this front. We believe changes 

can and should be made that preserve 

the safety and soundness of the ˜nancial 

system and lead to a more healthy and 
vibrant economy for the bene˜t of all. 
There are some basic principles that should guide 
responsible regulation:
Coherence of rules to be coordinated both within and across regulatory agenciesGlobal harmonization of regulation to 
enhance fair trade and competition while 
helping eliminate any weak links in the 

global systemSimpli˜ed and proper risk-based capital 
standardsConsistent and transparent capital and 
liquidity rulesRegular and rigorous regulatory review, 

including consideration of costs vs. bene
-
˜ts, e˚ciencies, competitiveness, reduc
-
tion of redundant costs and assessment of 
impact on economic growth Adhering to these principles will maximize 
safety and soundness, increase competition 

and improve economic health.
Since the ˜nancial crisis, thousands of new 
rules and regulations have been put into 

place by multiple regulators in the United 

States and around the world. An already 

complex system of ˜nancial oversight and 

supervision has grown even more complex 

Œ and this complexity can sometimes create 

even more risk. Many of these rules and 

regulations should be examined and possibly 

modi˜ed, but I will focus on the few that are 

critical in response to some of the questions 
and topics that follow.
REGULATORY
 REFORM
18181. Talk about the strength and safety of the ˚nancial system and whether Too Big to Fail has 
been solved.
 There is no question that the system is safer 
and stronger today, and this is mostly due to 

the following factors:
Dramatically higher capital for almost all 
banks (we™ll talk later about how much 

capital is the appropriate amount)Far higher liquidity for almost all banks 

(again, we™ll provide more details later in 

this section) More disclosure and transparency Œ both 
to investors and regulators
More coordinated oversight within the 

United States and abroad Far stronger compliance and control 

systems Laws that allow regulators to step in to 
unwind not only failing banks but invest
-
ment banks (this did not exist for invest
-
ment banks prior to the ˜nancial crisis)The creation of ﬁbail-inableﬂ unsecured 
debt Œ this converts debt into equity at the 

time of failure, immediately recapitalizing 

the failed bankNew rules that prohibit derivatives 

contracts from being voided at bankruptcy 

Œ this allows derivatives contracts to stay 

in place, creating an orderly transition to 

bankruptcyStress testing that monitors banks™ balance 

sheets and capital ratios under severely 

adverse scenarios (more on this below)
Requirements for banks and investment 

banks to prepare corporate recovery plans 

in the event of a crisis to prevent bank
-
ruptcy (these plans did not exist before 

the ˜nancial crisis)These changes taken together not only 

largely eliminate the chance of a major 

bank failing today but also prevent such 

failure from having a threatening domino 

e˛ect on other banks and the economy as a 

whole. And if a major bank does fail, regula
-
tors have the necessary tools to manage it 

in an orderly way. Moreover, the banking 

industry itself has an inherent interest in 
the safety and soundness of the ˜nancial 
system because if there is a failure, 
the entire 
industry will be liable for that cost (more on 

that below).Essentially, Too Big to Fail has been solved Š 
taxpayers will not pay if a bank fails.
The American public has the right to 
demand that if a major bank fails, they, as 

taxpayers, would not have to pay for it, and 

the failure wouldn™t unduly harm the U.S. 

economy. In my view, these demands have 

now both been met.On the ˜rst count, if a bank fails, taxpayers 
do not pay. Shareholders and debtholders, 

now due to total loss absorbing capacity 
(TLAC) rules, are at risk for all losses. To add 

belts and suspenders, if all that capital is not 

enough, the next and ˜nal line of defense is 

the industry itself, which is legally liable to 

pay any excess losses. (Notably, since 20o7, 

JPMorgan Chase alone has contributed $11.7 

billion to the industry deposit fund.) On the second count, a regulatory takeover 
of a major bank would be orderly because 

regulators have the tools to manage it in the 

right way. 
It is instructive to look at what would 
happen if Lehman were to fail in today™s 

regulatory regime. First of all, it is highly 

unlikely the ˜rm would fail because the new 

requirements would mean that instead of 

Lehman™s equity capital being $23 billion, 

which it was in 2007, it would be approxi
-
mately $45 billion under today™s capital rules. 
In addition, Lehman would have far stronger 
1919liquidity and ﬁbail-inableﬂ debt. And ˜nally, 
the ˜rm would be forced to raise capital 

much earlier in the process. 
If Lehman failed anyway, regulators would 
now have the legal authority to put the 

˜rm in receivership (they did not have that 

ability back in 2007Œ2008). The moment that 

happened, unsecured debt of approximately 

$120 billion would be immediately converted 

to equity. Derivatives contracts would not be 

triggered, and cash would continue to move 

through the pipes of the ˜nancial system. In 
other words, due to the living wills, Too Big 

to Fail was solved before any additional rules 

were put in place. (I™m not going to go into 

detail on the living wills but will say that 

while they have some positive elements, they 

have become unnecessarily complex and 

costly, and they need to be simpli˜ed.) 
Last, there is a new push for Chapter 14 
bankruptcy for banks, which we at JPMorgan 
Chase support. 
This would provide specialized rules to 
quickly handle bankruptcy for banks. 

Whether a failed bank goes through Chapter 
14, called ﬁbankruptcy,ﬂ or Title II, called 

ﬁresolutionﬂ Œ these are essentially the same 
thing Œ we should make the following point 

perfectly clear to the American people: A 

failed bank means the bank™s board and 

management are discharged, its equity is 

worthless, compensation is clawed back to 

the extent of the law and the bank™s name 

will forever be buried in the Hall of Shame. 

In addition, we should change the term ﬁreso
-
lutionﬂ Œ as it sounds as if we are bailing out 

a failing bank (which couldn™t be further 

from the truth). Whatever the term is called, 

it should be made clear that the process 
is the same as bankruptcy in any other 

industry. One lesson from the prior crisis is 

that the American public will not be satis˜ed 

without ﬁOld Testament Justice.ﬂ
But market panic will never disappear entirely, 
and regulations must be ˛exible enough to allow 
banks to act as a bulwark against it rather than 
forcing ˚nancial institutions into a defensive 
crouch that will only make things worse. 
There will be market panic again, and it 
won™t a˛ect just banks Œ it will a˛ect the 

entire ˜nancial marketplace. Remember, 

banks were consistent providers of credit at 

existing prices into the crisis Œ the market 

was not. During the crisis, many companies 

could not raise money in the public markets, 

many securities did not trade, securities issu
-
ances dropped dramatically and many asset 

prices fell to valuation levels that virtually 

anticipated a Great Depression. Last time 
around, banks Œ in particular (and I say with 

pride) our bank Œ stood by their customers 

to provide capital and liquidity that helped 

them survive. However, today™s capital and 

liquidity rules have created rigidity that will 

actually hurt banks™ ability to stand against 

the tide as they did during the Great Reces
-
sion. This will mean that banks will survive 

the next market panic with plenty of cushion 

that could have been Œ but may not have 

been Œ used to help customers, companies 

and communities.
It is in this environment that regulators need certain authorities to stop the situation from 
getting worse. One important point: Under 

both Chapter 14 and Title II, there might be 

a short-term need for the Federal Deposit 

Insurance Corporation or the Fed to lend 

money, in the short run with proper collat
-
eral, to a failing or failed institution. This is 

because panic can cause a run on the bank, 

and it is far less painful to the economy if 

that bank™s assets are not sold in ˜re sales. 

This lending is e˛ectively fully secured, and 

no loss should ever be incurred. Again, any 

loss that did occur would be charged back to 

all the banks. This also gives banks an enor
-mous incentive to be in favor of a properly 

designed, safe and sound system. 
Going back to the principles above, putting 
safety and soundness ˜rst is clearly correct, 

but regulators also need the ability to take 

into consideration the costs and impact on 
our economy in various scenarios. 
20202.
 How and why should capital rules be changed?
We need consistent, transparent, simpli˚ed and 
more risk-based capital standards.
A healthy banking system needs consistent 
and transparent capital and liquidity rules 
that are based on simpli˜ed and proper 
risk-based standards. This allows banks to 

use capital intelligently and to properly plan 
capital levels over the years. Any rules that 

are capricious or that cause an arbitrary 
reduction in the value of a bank™s capital Œ 

and the value of the bank overall Œ can cause 

improper or ine˚cient risk taking. Finally, 

proper capital rules will allow a bank to do 
its job: to consistently ˜nance the economy, 

in good times and, importantly, in bad times. 
There are more than 20 di˛erent major 
capital and liquidity requirements Œ and 
they often are inconsistent. For example, 

certain liquidity rules force a bank to hold 

an increasing amount of cash, essentially 

deposited at the Fed, but other rules require 

the bank to hold capital against this risk-free 

cash. An extraordinary number of calcula
-
tions need to be made as companies try to 
manage to avoid inadvertently violating one 

of the standards Œ a violation that rarely 
a˛ects safety and soundness. To protect 

themselves, banks build enormous bu˛ers Œ 

and bu˛ers on top of bu˛ers Œ or otherwise 
take unnecessary actions to ensure that they 

don™t step over the line. And ˜nally, if we 
Our Fortress Balance Sheet
at December 31
,20082016CET17.0%
312.2%
4TCE/
Total assets
14.0%
7.5%
Tangible
common equity 
$84B
$183B
Total assets
$2.2T
$2.5T
RWA
$1.2T
3$1.5T
4Operational risk RWA
$0$400BLiquidity
~$300B$786B
Fed funds purchased and securities loaned 
or sold under repurchase agreements
$193B
$166BLong-term debt and 
 preferred stock
2 $303B
$321B1 Excludes goodwill and intangible assets.
 B = billions2 Includes trust preferred securities. 
 T = trillions3 Reflects Basel I measure; CET1 reflects Tier 1 common. 
 bps = basis points
4 Reflects Basel III Advanced Fully Phased-in measure.
 CET1 = Common equity Tier 1 ratio. CET1 ratios re˜ect the capital rule the ˚rm was subject to at each reporting period
TCE
 = Tangible common equity
RWA
 = Risk-weighted assets
HQLA
 = High quality liquid assets predominantly includes cash on deposit at central banks and unencumbered U.S. agency
 mortgage-backed securities, U.S. Treasuries and sovereign bonds 
Liquidity
 = HQLA plus unencumbered marketable securities and trapped liquidity not included in HQLA
TLAC
 = Total loss absorbing capacity 
        16.7% adjusted 
 Basel III Advanced 

excluding operational  

risk RWA
$172 billion 
eligible for 

external TLAC
Reported HQLA 

is $524 billion+$300B+350 bps
+$99B
+$300B+520 bps
Œ$27B+~$486B+$400B+$18B21212 Tangible common 
equity, long-term debt 
and preferred stock.
3 RWA less operational 
risk RWA.
enter another Great Recession, the need for 
these bu˛ers increases, which inevitably will 

force a bank to reduce its lending.
We have a fortress balance sheet Š far more than 
the numbers imply.
The chart on page 20 shows the dramatic 
improvement in our capital and liquidity 

numbers since 2008. Remember, we had 

enough capital and liquidity in 2008 to easily 
handle the crisis that ensued. The numbers are even better than they look 
on the chart for the following reasons:
In 2008, there was no such thing as 
operational risk capital (not to say there 

wasn™t operational risk but just that 

capital was not applied to it). If you 

measured our capital ratio on the same 

basis as in 2008 (that is, on an apples 

to apples basis), we wouldn™t have just 

12.2% today vs. 7% in 2008 Œ we would 

have 16.7% today vs. 7% in 2008.
Since 2008, the regulatory de˜nition of 

liquidity has been prescribed. Now, only 

deposits at a central bank, Treasuries and 

government-guaranteed mortgage-backed 

securities (plus a limited amount of 
sovereign and corporate bonds) count as 

liquidity. Many securities are not allowed 

to count as liquidity today  Œ on the theory 

that they can sustain losses and occasion
-
ally become illiquid. While maybe not all 

100% of the current value of these securi
-
ties should apply toward liquidity require
-
ments, they should count for something. If 

you did combine all of these categories as 

liquidity, our liquidity at JPMorgan Chase 

would have gone from $300 billion in 

2008 to $786 billion today. And remember, 

our deposits Œ theoretically subject to ﬁrun 
on the bankﬂ risk Œ total $1.4 trillion. Even 

in the Great Recession, the worst case for a 

bank was only a 30% loss of its deposits.
Finally, when you include long-term debt 

and preferred stock as loss absorbing 

capital, our total capital
2 is approximately 
$500 billion vs. true risk-weighted assets 

of $1.1 trillion.3 Essentially, since 2008, our 
total capital has gone from $387 billion 
to $500 billion, while actual risk-weighted 

assets have declined to $1.1 trillion. 
In addition to our fortress balance sheet, 
 
we are well-diversi˜ed, and we have healthy 

margins and strong controls. These are all 

factors that dramatically improve safety 

and soundness, but they are not included in 

any measures. As you will see below, we can 

handle almost any stress.
We believe in stress testing, but it could be 
improved and simpli˚ed.
As you know, the Fed puts our company 
through one ﬁseverely adverseﬂ stress test 

annually, which determines how we can use 

our capital, pay dividends, buy back stock and 

expand. We are great believers in stress testing 

but would like to make the following points:
Our shareholders should know that we 
don™t rely on one stress test a year Œ we 

conduct more than 200 each week across all 

of our riskiest exposures. We meet weekly; 

we analyze each exposure in multiple ways; 

we are extremely risk conscious.
The Federal Reserve™s Comprehensive 

Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR) 

stress test estimates what our losses 

would be through a severely adverse 

event lasting over nine quarters, which 

approximates the severity and time of 

the Great Recession; e.g., high unem
-
ployment, counterparty failures, etc. The 

Fed estimates that in such a scenario, we 

would lose $31 billion over the ensuing 

nine quarters, which is easily manageable 

by JPMorgan Chase™s capital base. My 

own view is that we would make money 

in almost every quarter in that type of 

environment, and this is supported by 

our having earned approximately $30 

billion pre-tax over the course of the nine 

quarters during the real ˜nancial crisis. 
2222We don™t completely understand the Fed™s 
assumptions and models Œ the Fed does not 

share them with us (we hope there will be 

more transparency and clarity in the future). 
But we do understand that the Fed™s stress 

test shows results far worse than our own 

test because the Fed™s stress test is not a fore
-
cast of what you actually think will happen.  

Instead, it appropriately makes additional 

assumptions about a company™s likelihood 

to fail Œ that its trading losses will be far 
worse than expected, etc. The Fed wants to 

make sure the bank has enough capital if just 

about everything goes wrong.
Finally, while we ˜rmly believe banks should 
have a proper assessment of their qualitative 

abilities, this should not be part of a once-a-

year stress test. Instead, it should be part of 

the Fed™s regular exam process. The Fed and 

the banks should work together to continu
-
ously improve the quality of their processes 

while creating a consistent, safe and econ
-
omy-growing use of capital.
It is clear that the banks have too much capital.
Here is another critical point: The Fed™s stress 

test of the 33 major banks estimates what 

each bank would lose assuming it were the 

worst bank in the crisis, which, of course, will 

not be true in the real world. But even if that 

happened, the chart below shows that if you 

combine all the banks™ extreme losses, the total 

losses add up to less than 10% of the banks™ 

combined capital. This de˜nitively proves that 

there is excess capital in the system.
And more of that capital can be safely used to 
˚nance the economy.
Proper calibration of capital is critical to 
ensure not only that the system is safe and 

sound but that banks can use their capital to 

˜nance the economy. And we think it™s clear 

that banks can use more of their capital to 

˜nance the economy without sacri˜cing safety 

and soundness. Had they been less afraid of 

potential CCAR stress losses, banks probably 

would have been more aggressive in making 

some small business loans, lower rated middle 

market loans and near-prime mortgages. 
1  Includes 2013™s 18 participating CCAR banks as well as Bear Stearns, 
 Countrywide, Merrill Lynch, National City, Wachovia and Washington Mutual.
SIFI = Systemically Important Financial Institution
CCAR = Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review
Source: SNL Financial; Federal Reserve Bank
Loss Absorbing Resources of U.S. SIFI Banks Combined
($ in billions)2016120071$1,749$2,192Ÿ2xŸ10%˜Loan loss reserves, preferred stock  and long-term debt˜Tangible common equity$475$1,274$1,173$1,019$19533 CCAR banks 2016projected pre-tax net losses (severely adverse scenario)2323The global systemically important bank (GSIB) 
and supplementary leverage ratio (SLR) rules 
need to be modi˚ed. The GSIB capital surcharge forces large banks 
to add even more capital, based on some 

very complex calculations that are highly 

˝awed and not risk based. In fact, the rules 

often penalize fairly risk-free activity, such as 

deposits held at the Fed and short-term secured 

˜nancing. Likewise, the SLR rules force capital 

to be held on deposit at the Fed in Treasury 

securities and in other liquid securities. Neither 

calculation gives credit for operating margins, 

diversi˜cation or annuity streams of business. 

These calculations should, at a minimum, 

be signi˜cantly modi˜ed and balanced to 

promote lending and other policy goals, 

including maintaining deep and liquid capital 

markets, clearing derivatives and directing 

more private capital in the mortgage market.
Operational risk capital should be signi˚cantly 
modi˚ed, if not eliminated.
No one could credibly argue that there is no 
such thing as operational risk, separate and 

distinct from credit and market risk. All busi
-
nesses have operational risk (trucks crash, 

computers fail, lawsuits happen, etc.), but 

almost all businesses successfully manage it 

through their operating earnings and general 

resources. Basel standards required banks 

to hold capital for operational risk, and the 

United States ﬁgold platedﬂ this calculation. 

Banks in the United States in total now hold 
approximately $200 billion in operational risk 

capital. For us, we hold excess operational risk 

capital which is not being utilized to support 

our economy. It was an unnecessarily large 

add-on. If you are going to have operational 

risk capital, it should be forward looking, fairly 

calculated, coordinated with other capital rules 

and consistent with reality. (Currently, if you 

exit a business that created operational risk 

capital, you are still, most likely, required to 

hold the operational risk capital.) 
Finally, America should eliminate its ﬁgold 
platingﬂ of international standards. 
American regulators took the new Basel 
standards across a wide variety of calcula
-
tions and asked for more. If JPMorgan Chase 

could use the same international standards 

as other international banks, it would free up 

a material amount of capital. The removal of 

the GSIB surcharge ﬁgold platingﬂ alone would 

free up $15 billion of equity capital Œ an 

amount that could support almost $190 billion 

of loans. In addition, America gold plated 

operational risk capital, liquidity rules, SLR 

rules and TLAC rules. Later in this letter, we 

will discuss international standards. 
Properly done and improved, modifying 
many of these regulatory standards could 

help ˜nance the growth of the American 

economy without damaging the safety and 

soundness of the system.3.
 How do certain regulatory policies impact money markets? 
Di˛erent from most banks, money center 

banks help large institutions Œ including 

governments, investors and large money 

market funds Œ move short-term funds 

around the system to where those funds are 

needed most. The recipients of these funds 

include ˜nancial institutions (including non-
money center banks) and corporations that 

can have large daily needs to invest or borrow. 

The products that money center banks o˛er 

large institutions are predominantly deposits, 

securities, money market funds and short-

term overnight investments called repurchase 
agreements. These involve enormous ˝ows 

of funds, which money center banks handle 

easily, carefully and securely. They are gener
-ally match-funded
4, almost no credit risk is 
taken, and most lending is done wholly and 

properly secured by Treasuries or govern
-
ment-guaranteed securities. These transac
-
tions represent a large part of JPMorgan 

Chase™s balance sheet. Because of new rules, 

capital in many cases must be held on these 

short-term, virtually riskless activities, and 

we believe this has caused distortions in the 

marketplace. For example:
4Match-funding ensures that 
the risk characteristics Š 
e.g., interest rate, maturity 
Š of the asset (e.g., loan) 
 
are o˛set by the liability 
(e.g., deposit) funding it. 
2424Swap spreads, for the ˜rst time in history, 
turned negative, which means that corpo
-
rations need to pay a lot more to hedge 

their interest rate exposure.
Reduction in broker-dealer inventories has 

impacted liquidity.
Many banks reject certain types of large 

deposits from some of their large institu-
tional clients. In a peculiar twist of fate 

Œ and something di˚cult for our clients 

to understand Œ through 2016, JPMorgan 

Chase turned away 3,200 large clients 

and $200 billion of their deposits even 
though we could have taken them without 

incurring any risk whatsoever (we simply 

would have deposited the $200 billion at 

the central bank).The charts below shows some of the reduc
-
tion in banks™ market-making abilities.
We need to work closely with regulators to 
assess the impact of the new rules on speci˜c 
markets, the cost and volatility of liquidity, 

and the potential cost of credit. We should 

be able to make some modest changes that 

in no way impact safety and soundness but 

improve markets. 
4.
 How has regulation a˝ected monetary policy, the ˜ow of bank credit and the growth of the 

economy? 
It is extremely important that we analyze 

how new capital and liquidity rules a˛ect the 
creation of credit; i.e., lending. We have yet 

to see thorough, thoughtful analysis on this 

subject by economists Œ because in this case, 

it is very hard to calculate what might have 

been counterfactual. However, it seems clear 

that if banks had been able to use more of 
their capital and liquidity, they would have 

been more aggressive in terms of expanding: 

Think of additional bankers, bank branches 

and geographies, which likely would have 
led to additional lending. (On the following 

pages, we make it clear that this would have 

been the case in mortgage lending.) 
I would like to focus on how liquidity policies 
may have impacted the e˛ectiveness of mone
-
tary policy and lending. The chart on page 

25 shows bank loans vs. bank deposits from 

2006 to 2016. During the last several decades, 

deposits and loans were mostly balanced. 

You can see that stopped being true after the 

start of the Great Recession. Today, loans are 

approximately $2 trillion less than deposits. 
Dealer Positions across Treasuries, 
 Agencies, MBS
1 and Corporates
2006Œ2016
($ in billions)Total Repurchase Agreements Outstanding

2006Œ2016
($ in billions)1 Mortgage-backed securities (MBS)
Source: Haver; Federal Reserve Bank of New York
$100$200$300$400$500$600Jan. ™06Sep. ™08Jun. ™11Mar. ™14Dec. ™16Jan. ™06Sep. ™08Jun. ™11Mar. ™14Dec. ™16$2,000$2,500$3,000$3,500$4,000$4,500$5,000$5,5002525Many factors may in˝uence this scenario, 
but there are two arguments at the bookends 

about why this happened:
There was simply not enough loan 
demand due to a slow-growing economy.
The new liquidity rules require banks 
to hold approximately $2 trillion at the 

Federal Reserve, whether or not there is 

loan demand.It is evident that banks reduced certain types 

of lending legitimately Œ think of some of the 

inappropriate subprime mortgage lending Œ 

but banks cut back on other types of lending 
as well because of the new rules; for example, 

small business lending due to CCAR and 

cross-border lending because of GSIB. The 

ensuing discussion shows how other regula-
tory rules dramatically decreased mortgage 

lending, again slowing down the economy. 
It is clear that the transmission of monetary 
policy is di˛erent today from what it was in 

the past because of new capital and liquidity 

rules. What is not clear is how much these 

rules reduced lending. Again, working 

together, we should be able to ˜gure it out and 

make appropriate improvements that enhance 

economic growth without damaging the safety 

of the system.5.
 How can we reform mortgage markets to give quali˚ed borrowers access to the credit they need? 
Much of what we consider good in America 

Œ a good job, stability and community 

involvement Œ is represented in the achieve
-
ment of homeownership. Owning a home is 

still the embodiment of the American Dream, 

and it is commonly the most important asset 
that most families have.
So it is no surprise the ˜nancial crisis, which 

was caused in part by poor mortgage lending 

practices and which caused so much pain 

for American families and businesses, led 

to new regulations and enhanced supervi-
sion. We needed to create a safer and better 

functioning mortgage industry. However, our 
Source: Haver; Federal Reserve Bank
Bank Loans and Bank Deposits 
2006Œ2016
($ in trillions)$0.0$2.0$4.0$6.0$8.0$10.0$12.0$14.0˜Bank loans    ˜Bank deposits201620152014201320122011201020092008200720062626housing sector has been unusually slow to recover, and that may be partly due to restric
-
tions in mortgage credit.
Seven major federal regulators and a long list 
of state and local regulators have overlapping 

jurisdiction on mortgage laws and wrote a 

plethora of new rules and regulations appro-
priately focused on educating and protecting 

customers. While some of the rules are 

bene˜cial, many were hastily developed and 

layered upon existing rules without coordina
-
tion or calibration as to the potential e˛ects. 
The result is a complex, highly risky and 
unpredictable operating environment that 
exposes lenders and servicers to dispropor
-tionate legal liability and materially increases 

operational risks and costs. These actions 

resulted in:Mortgages that cost the consumer more
A tightening credit box; i.e., mortgage 

lenders are less likely to extend credit to 

borrowers without a strong credit history 
An inhibition of the return of private 

capital to the housing industryThe crowding out of resources to improve 

technology and the customer experience
The chart below and the top chart on page 27 

show the decline in lending to individuals 

with lower credit scores. The bottom chart on 

page 27 shows what is likely a related decline 

in the sales of new but lower priced homes. 
˜FICO scores >700    ˜FICO scores between 660Œ700    ˜FICO scores <660    0%10%20%30%40%50%60%70%80%90%100%201520142013201220112010200920082007200620052004200320022001Source: Urban Institute Housing Finance Policy Center
Share of Borrowers with Strong Credit Has Increased Dramatically
2727There are signi˜cant opportunities to make 
simple changes that can have a dramatic 

impact on improving the current state of the 

home lending industry Œ this will make access 

to good and a˛ordable mortgages much more 

achievable for far more Americans. And it™s 

noteworthy that those who lost access to 

mortgage credit are the very ones who so 

many people profess to want to help Œ e.g., 

lower income buyers, ˜rst-time homebuyers, 

the self-employed and individuals with prior 

defaults who deserve another chance.
Federal Housing Administration (FHA) reform can 
bring banks back and expand access to credit. 
The FHA plays a signi˜cant role in providing 
credit for ˜rst-time, low- to moderate-income 

and minority homebuyers. However, aggres
-
sive use of the False Claims Act (FCA) (a 

Civil War act passed to protect the govern
-
ment from intentional fraud) and overly 

complex regulations have made FHA lending 

risky and cost prohibitive for many banks. 

In fact, FCA settlements wiped out a decade 

of FHA pro˜tability, and subsequent losses 
Comparison of New Home Sales by Price Range
 Benchmark (1x = January 2010 sales levels)
0x1x2x3x4x5x6x2015200520102000˜Over $300,000    ˜Under $300,000    Source: Haver; U.S. Census Bureau
Average FICO of Newly Originated 30-Year Purchase Loans, for the GSEs and FHA
GSE = Government-sponsored enterprise
FHA = Federal Housing Administration
Source: Freddie Mac, The Federal Housing Administration
6256506757007257507752016201520142013201220112010200920082007˜GSE    ˜FHA70 point increase40 point increase2828have kept returns on capital solidly below 
our target. This has led us to scale back our 

participation in the FHA lending program in 
favor of less burdensome lending programs 

that serve the same consumer base Œ and we 

are not alone. The chart above shows that 

nonbanks have gone from 20% to 80% of 

FHA originations.
A ˜rst step to increasing participation in the 
FHA program could be the communication of 

support for only using the FCA, as originally 

intended, to penalize intentional fraud rather 

than immaterial or unintentional errors. Other 

changes that would help would be:
Improve and fully implement the 
Housing and Urban Development™s (HUD) 

proposed defect taxonomy, clarifying 

liability for fraudulent activity.
Revise certi˜cation requirements to make 

them more commercially reasonable.
Simplify loss mitigation by allowing 

streamlined programs and aligning with 
industry standards.
Eliminate costly, unnecessary and 

outdated requirements that make the cost 

of servicing an FHA loan signi˜cantly 
more expensive than a conventional loan.
Mortgage servicing is too complex: National 
servicing standards would help.
Mortgage servicing is a particularly complex 
business in which the cumulative impact 

of regulations has dramatically increased 

operational and compliance risk and costs 

(remember that costs are usually passed 

on to the customer). Mortgage servicing 

starts immediately after loan origination 

(loan origination also has become signi˜-
cantly more expensive and complex as a 

result of regulatory changes) and involves a 

continuing and dynamic relationship among 

a servicer, customer and investor or guar
-antor, such as Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or 

FHA, to name a few. 
New mortgage rules and regulations total 
more than 14,000 pages and stand about six 

feet tall. In servicing alone, there are thou
-
sands of pages of federal and state servicing 

rules now Œ clearly driving up complexity 

and cost. The Mortgage Bankers Associa
-
tion estimated the fully loaded annual cost 

of industry servicing, as of 2015, to be $181 

for a performing mortgage and $2,386 for a 

mortgage in default. The cost of servicing a 

defaulted loan is so high that many servicers 

avoid underwriting loans that have even a 

modest probability of default. This is another 
Source: Ginnie Mae
 2016201520142013201220110%10%20%30%40%50%60%70%80%90%100%˜Nonbank    Nonbank Share of New 30-Year FHA Originations
2929reason why mortgage companies avoid under
-writing certain types of mortgages today than 
they would have underwritten in the past. 
The most promising opportunity in mort-gage servicing is to adopt uniform national 

servicing standards across guarantors, 

federal and state regulators, and investors. 

Importantly, there is no need for legislation 

to implement the necessary coordination to 
get this done. In particular, the U.S. Treasury 

is well-positioned to lead key players in the 

mortgage industry (the Consumer Finan
-
cial Protection Bureau, Fannie Mae, Freddie 

Mac, the Federal Housing Finance Agency, 

HUD, the FHA, the Veterans Administra
-
tion, Ginnie Mae and the U.S. Department 

of Agriculture) to establish national service 

standards that would simplify mortgage 

origination and servicing. Treasury played a 

similarly pivotal leadership role during the 

crisis when it helped develop the various 

mortgage assistance initiatives, such as the 

loan modi˜cation and streamlined re˜nance 
programs that allowed many Americans to 

stay in their homes and communities. 
Private capital needs to return in order to make 
the market less taxpayer dependent Š we need 
 to complete the securitization standards.
Private capital in the mortgage industry, 
particularly in the form of securitizations, 

dried up as a result of the ˜nancial crisis. 

Eight years later, we still have not opened up 

a healthy securitization market because of 

our inability to ˜nalize the rules. Not only 

does this reduce the share of private capital 

in the U.S. housing sector (an action that 

would signi˜cantly reduce taxpayer expo
-
sure), it also signi˜cantly increases the cost 

to the customer. Taking a few actions would 

˜x this, including: 
Rationalize capital requirements on securi-tizations to e˛ectively transfer risk to the 

market while leaving ﬁskin in the gameﬂ 

with the originator.
Reduce the complexity of data delivery 

requirements.
Clarify and de˜ne materiality standards 
associated with compliance with laws and 
regulations, as well as underwriting stan
-
dards, to allow for reasonable protections 

from litigation and to enable standardized 

due diligence practices. 
If we do this right, we believe the mortgage 
market could add more than $300 billion a year 
in new purchased loans.
If we take the actions mentioned above, we 
believe that the cost to a customer would 

be 20 basis points lower and that mortgage 

underwriters would be willing to take more 

Œ but appropriate Œ risk on loans (again, this 

would be for ˜rst-time, young and lower 

income buyers, those with prior delinquen
-
cies but who are now in good ˜nancial 
standing and those who are self-employed). 
Taken in total, we believe the issues identi
-˜ed above have reduced mortgage lending by 

more than $300 billion purchased mortgages 

annually (our analysis deliberately excludes 

underwriting the subprime and Alt-A mort
-
gages that caused so many problems in the 

Great Recession). Had we been able to ˜x 

these issues ˜ve years ago (i.e., three years 

after the crisis), our analysis shows that, 

conservatively, more than $1 trillion in mort
-
gage loans might have been made. 
If this is true, it may explain why our housing 
sector has been unusually slow to recover: 

$1 trillion of new mortgage loans is approxi
-
mately 3 million loans. Of these, typically 

more than 20% would go to purchase new 

homes that would need to be built. By any 

estimate, this could have had a signi˜cant 

impact on the growth of jobs and gross 

domestic product (GDP). Our economists think 

that $1 trillion of loans could have increased 

GDP, in each of those ˜ve years, by 0.5%.
 In 

the next section, we will talk about how this is 

just one of the many things we did to damage 

our nation™s economy.
30306.
 How can we reduce complexity and create a more coherent regulatory system?
We created a massively complex system 
in which multiple regulators have overlap
-
ping responsibilities on virtually every issue, 

including rulemaking, examination, auditing 

and enforcement. This is extremely taxing, 

complex and overly burdensome for banks, 

customers of banks and regulators. 
Dodd-Frank appropriately established the 
Financial Services Oversight Committee 

(FSOC) and assigned to it the responsibility 
of general oversight across the entire ˜nan
-
cial system. Unfortunately, the FSOC was 

not given the ability to adjudicate issues or 

assign responsibility. Therefore, the FSOC is 

unable to fully resolve some of the problems 

that we have detailed in this letter. Finally, 

another ˝aw is that some of the laws were 

written in a way that left them open to broad 

interpretation and novel enforcement. 
There is too much complexity in the system Š it 
could be ˚xed, and that would make the system 
stronger.
Nearly everyone agrees there is too much 
complexity in the current construct of the 

˜nancial system. A few examples will su˚ce:
There are multiple calculations of capital, 
living wills, the Volcker Rule, etc.
There are multiple regulators involved 

independently in rulemaking Œ just two 

examples: Seven regulators are involved 

in setting mortgage regulations, and ˜ve 

regulators oversee the Volcker Rule. This 

leads to slow rulemaking (e.g., as noted 

above, we still have not ˜nished the mort
-
gage rules eight years after the crisis), 

excessive reporting and varied interpreta
-
tions on what the actual rules are.
Each agency makes separate audit and 

reporting demands and can indepen-
dently take enforcement action on the 

same subject.This is clearly a dysfunctional structure. 
 
The ˜x is simple Œ though getting it done 
may not be:
The system should be simpli˜ed. There 

should be one primary regulator on any 

issue, and we should always strive to make 

things as simple as possible. 
The primary regulator should establish 
the rules, the reporting requirements, the 

audit plans and the enforcement action. 

Other regulators should get involved only 

if they believe the primary person did a 

particularly poor job.
Everything in the regulatory landscape 

should be reviewed in the context of 

safety and soundness, cost-bene˜t analysis 

and economic growth.The FSOC is a good idea but needs to be modi˚ed 
to be more e˝ective.
It makes sense for regulators to be continu
-ously reviewing the entire ˜nancial system 
in an e˛ort to make it as safe and sound as 

possible (think of this as a well-functioning 

risk committee of a major bank). But the 
FSOC should be given some authority to 

assign responsibility, adjudicate disagree
-
ments, set deadlines and force the reso
-
lution of critical issues. The FSOC could 

also enforce due consideration of regula
-
tions™ costs vs. bene˜ts and the impact on 

economic growth. We have great sympathy for, and agree with, 
the complaints of the community banks. They 

are struggling to deal with the complexity 

and cost of meeting these requirements Œ 

and we agree these smaller banks should be 

relieved of many of the requirements. 
Enhancing the functionality of the FSOC and providing regulatory relief where appro
-
priate should not be a political issue. The 

administration is currently conducting a 
review of the rules and regulations, which 

are burdensome and duplicative and which 

may impede economic growth. That process 

should be as de-politicized as possible. 

Everyone stands to gain when growth is 

enabled in a safe and sound manner.
31317.
 How can we harmonize regulations across the globe? 
Currently, American regulators have been 
pushing the Basel Committee Œ the interna-
tional forum that is supposed to set inter
-national ˜nancial regulatory guidelines Œ to 
meet the even higher American standards 

around capital requirements, derivatives 

rules, risk-weight calculations, stress testing 

and other requirements. Many other coun
-
tries around the world are telling Basel that 

it has gone too far and that it™s time to let 

the banks focus on healthy lending and 
growth of the economy. Following are a few 
principles that we think should guide global 

regulations and international coordination 
to increase safety and soundness and foster 

global growth:International regulations should be coherent and generally harmonized 
around the world Œ but they don™t need to 

be exactly the same.
We should recognize where there are legit
-
imate reasons to do something di˛erent. 
For example, certain types of loans legiti
-
mately could draw di˛erent risk weighting 

in various countries based on historical 

performance, collateral and bankruptcy 

laws or even culture.
Cross-border ˜nancial rules need to be 

part of trade negotiations like any other 

product or service. We know we will be 

increasingly competing with Chinese 

banks, and, eventually, we need the U.S. 

government to make that part of our 

trade agreement.We can acknowledge that the state of 

a˛airs in di˛erent countries, including 

in their banks and their economies, 

may di˛er and that these di˛erences 

might warrant idiosyncratic regulatory 

responses. For example, European banks 

for eight years have consistently been put 

in the position of having to raise more 

and more capital and liquidity or having 

to reduce their lending capacity. While 

their capital standards may have been 
low compared with American standards 
(particularly in how they calculate risk-

weighted assets), this deleveraging has to 

have hurt the growth of European econo
-
mies and opportunities for their people. 

These banks started from a di˛erent posi-
tion (which had been sanctioned by both 

their regulators and governments years 

ago), and we agree that these banks should 

be allowed to do their job. Most of these 

banks have plenty of total capital. While 

it might be true that one day they should 

have more, the moral imperative now is to 

help their economies grow and to help the 
people of those countries.
We are completely convinced that if we can 

rationally change and coordinate many of 

these rules, banks can do 
even more to help 
the economy thrive. 
3232Before we address some of the critical issues confronting our country, it would be good to 
count our blessings. Let™s start with a serious assessment of our strengths. 
III.America today is probably stronger than ever 

before. For example: 
The United States has the world™s stron
-gest military, and this will be the case for 

decades. We are fortunate to be at peace 

with our neighbors and to have the protec
-
tion of the Atlantic and Paci˜c oceans.
As a nation, we have essentially all the 

food, water and energy we need.
The United States has among the world™s 

best universities and hospitals.
The United States has a generally reliable 
rule of law and low corruption. The government of the United States is the 

world™s longest surviving democracy, which 

has been steadfast, resilient and enduring 

through some very di˚cult times.
The people of the United States have a 

great work ethic and can-do attitude. 
Americans are among the most entrepre-
neurial and innovative people in the world 

Œ from those who work on the factory 
PUBLIC POLICY
2.
 But it is clear that something is wrong Š and it™s holding us back. 
Our economy has been growing much more 

slowly in the last decade or two than in the 

50 years before then. From 1948 to 2000, 

real per capita GDP grew 2.3%; from 2000 
to 2016, it grew 1%. Had it grown at 2.3% 

instead of 1% in those 17 years, our GDP per 

capita would be 24%, or more than $12,500 

per person higher than it is. U.S. productivity 

growth tells much the same story, as shown 

in the chart on page 33. 
Our nation™s lower growth has been accom
-
panied by Œ and may be one of the reasons 

why Œ real median household incomes in 

2015 were actually 2.5% lower than they 

were in 1999. In addition, the percentage of 

middle class households has actually shrunk 
over time. In 1971, 61% of households were 

considered middle class, but that percentage 

was only 50% in 2015. And for those in 

the bottom 20% of earners Œ mainly lower 

skilled workers Œ the story may be even 
1. The United States of America is truly an exceptional country.
˝oors to geniuses like the late Steve 

Jobs. Improving ﬁthingsﬂ and increasing 

productivity are American pastimes. And 

America still fosters an entrepreneurial 

culture, which allows risk taking Œ and 

acknowledges that it can result in success 

or failure. 
The United States is home to many of 

the best, most vibrant businesses on the 

planet Œ from small and midsized compa-
nies to large, global multinationals. 
The United States has the widest, deepest, 

most transparent and best ˜nancial 
markets in the world. And I™m not talking 

about just Wall Street and banks Œ I 

include the whole mosaic: venture capital, 

private equity, asset managers, individual 

and corporate investors, and public and 

private capital markets. Our ˜nancial 

markets have been an essential part of the 

great American business machine.
Very few countries, if any, are as blessed as 

we are. 
3333worse. For this group, real incomes declined 
by more than 8% between 1999 and 2015. 

In 1984, 60% of families could a˛ord a 

modestly priced home. By 2009, that ˜gure 

fell to about 50%. This drop occurred even 

though the percentage of U.S. citizens with a 

high school degree or higher increased from 

30% to 50% from 1980 to 2013. Low-skilled 
labor just doesn™t earn what it used to, which 

understandably is a source of real frustration 
for a very meaningful group of people. The 

income gap between lower skilled and skilled 

workers has been growing and may be the 

inevitable consequence of an increasingly 
sophisticated economy.
Regarding reduced social mobility, 
researchers have found that the likelihood 

of workers moving to the top-earning decile 

from starting positions in the middle of the 
earnings distribution has declined by approx
-
imately 20% since the early 1980s. 
Many economists believe we are now permanently 
relegated to slower growth and lower productivity 
(they say that secular stagnation is the new 
normal), but I strongly disagree. 
We will describe in the rest of this section 
many factors that are rarely considered in 

economic models although they can have an 

enormous e˛ect on growth and productivity. 

Making this list was an upsetting exercise, 

especially since many of our problems have 
been self-in˝icted. That said, it was also a 

good reminder of how much of this is in our 

control and how critical it is that we focus 

on all the levers that could be pulled to help 

the U.S. economy. We must do this because it 

will help all Americans.
Many other, often non-economic, factors impact 
growth and productivity.
Following is a list of some non-economic 
items that must have had a signi˜cant 

impact on America™s growth:
Over the last 16 years, we have spent tril
-lions of dollars on wars when we could 

have been investing that money produc
-
tively. (I™m not saying that money didn™t 

need to be spent; but every dollar spent 

on battle is a dollar that can™t be put to 

use elsewhere.) 
Since 2010, when the government took 

over student lending, direct government 

lending to students has gone from approx
-
imately $200 billion to more than $900 
billion Œ creating dramatically increased 
student defaults and a population that is 
rightfully angry about how much money 

they owe, particularly since it reduces 

their ability to get other credit. Source: Haver; Bureau of Labor Statistics
0.0%0.5%1.0%1.5%2.0%2.5%3.0%3.5%4.0%4.5%2015200519951985197519651955U.S. Productivity Growth
5-year % change, annualized
3434Our nation™s healthcare costs are essen
-tially twice as much per person vs. most 

other developed nations.
It is alarming that approximately 40% 

(this is an astounding 300,000 students 
each year) of those who receive advanced 

degrees in science, technology, engi
-
neering and math at American universi
-
ties are foreign nationals with no legal 

way of staying here even when many 

would choose to do so. We are forcing 

great talent overseas by not allowing these 

young people to build their dreams here.
Felony convictions for even minor 

o˛enses have led, in part, to 20 million 

American citizens having a criminal 

record Œ and this means they often have 

a hard time getting a job. (There are six 

times more felons in the United States 
than in Canada.)  The inability to reform mortgage markets 

has dramatically reduced mortgage avail
-
ability. We estimate that mortgages alone 

would have been more than $1 trillion 
higher had we had healthier mortgage 

markets. Greater mortgage access would 

have led to more homebuilding and addi
-
tional jobs and investments, which also 

would have driven additional growth. 
Any one of these non-economic factors is 

fairly material in damaging America™s e˛ort 

to achieve healthy growth. Let™s dig a little bit 

deeper into six additional unsettling issues 
that have also limited our growth rate. 
Labor force participation is too low.
Labor force participation in the United 

States has gone from 66% to 63% between 

2008 and today. Some of the reasons for this 

decline are understandable and aren™t too 

worrisome Œ for example, an aging popula
-
tion. But if you examine the data more closely 

and focus just on labor force participation for 

one key segment; i.e., men ages 25-54, you™ll 

see that we have a serious problem. The chart 

below shows that in America, the participa
-
tion rate for that cohort has gone from 96% 

in 1968 to a little over 88% today. This is way 

below labor force participation in almost 

every other developed nation.
Labor Force Participation Rates for Men Ages 25Œ54: U.S. vs. 22 Original OECD Member States, 1960Œ2015
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘ˆ
˙
˜˚˛˝˙˘ˆ










ˆ


•‡
…•‡
…‡•‡
…—•‡
…–•‡
…ƒ•‡
…⁄•‡
…‹•‡
…›•‡
…−•‡
…•‡
˜˚˛˚˜˚˛˝˜˚˚˝˜˚˚˚˛˙˙˝˛˙˙˚˛˙ˆ˝˛˙ˆ˚˛˙ˇ˝˛˙ˇ˚˛˙˘˝˛˙˘˚Source: Organisation for Economic
Co-operation and Development (OECD)
3535If the work participation rate for this group 
went back to just 93% Œ the current average 

for the other developed nations Œ approxi
-
mately 10 million more people would be 

working in the United States. Some other 

highly disturbing facts include: Fifty-seven 

percent of these non-working males are on 

disability, and fully 71% of today™s youth 

(ages 17Œ24) are ineligible for the military 

due to a lack of proper education (basic 

reading or writing skills) or health issues 
(often obesity or diabetes).Education is leaving too many behind.
Many high schools and vocational schools 

do not provide the education our students 

need Œ the goal should be to graduate and 
get a decent job. We should be ringing the 

national alarm bell that inner city schools are 

failing our children Œ often minorities and 

children from lower income households. In 

many inner city schools,
 fewer than 60% of 
students graduate, and many of those who 

do graduate are not prepared for employ
-
ment. We are creating generations of citizens 

who will never have a chance in this land of 

dreams and opportunity. Unfortunately, it™s 

self-perpetuating, and we all pay the price.  

The subpar academic outcomes of America™s 

minority and low-income children resulted 

in yearly GDP losses of trillions of dollars, 

according to McKinsey & Company.
Infrastructure needs planning and investment.
In the early 1960s, America was considered 

by most to have the best infrastructure 

(highways, ports, water supply, electrical 

grid, airports, tunnels, etc.). The World 

Economic Forum now ranks the United 

States #27 on its Basic Requirements index, 

re˝ecting infrastructure along with other 
criteria, among 138 countries. On infrastruc
-
ture, the United States is behind most major 

developed countries, including the United 

Kingdom, France and Korea. The American 

Society of Civil Engineers releases a report 
every four years examining current infra
-
structure conditions and needs Œ the 2017 
report card gave us a grade of D+. Another 
interesting and distressing fact: The United 

States has not built a major airport in more 
than 20 years. China, on the other hand, has 

built 75 new civilian airports in the last 10 
years alone.
Our corporate tax system is driving capital and 
brains overseas.
America now has the highest corporate tax 
rates among developed nations. Most other 

developed nations have reduced their tax 

rates substantially over the past 10 years 

(and this is true whether looking at statu-
tory or e˛ective tax rates). This is causing 

considerable damage. American corpora
-
tions are generally better o˛ investing 

their capital overseas, where they can earn 

a higher return because of lower taxes. In 

addition, foreign companies are advantaged 

when they buy American companies Œ often 

they are able to reduce the overall tax rate 

of the combined company. Because of this, 

American companies have been making 

substantial investments in human capital, 

as well as in plants, facilities, research 

and development (R&D) and acquisitions 

overseas. Also, American corporations hold 

more than $2 trillion in cash abroad to 

avoid the additional taxes. The only ques
-
tion is how much damage will be done 

before we ˜x this. 
Reducing corporate taxes would incent busi
-ness investment and job creation. The charts 

on page 36 show the following:
That job growth is highly correlated to business investment (this also makes 

intuitive sense).
That ˜xed investments by businesses 

and capital formation have gone down 

substantially and are far below what we 

would consider normal.
3636Source: Bureau of Economic Analysis; Bureau of Labor Statistics
Jobs Growth Clearly Linked to Business Investment
Year-over-year % change
 Real equipment and software spending (left scale)Private employment (right scale)Œ8%Œ6%Œ4%Œ2%0%2%4%6%8%Œ30%Œ20%Œ10%0%10%20%30%201620112006200119961991198619811976197119661961Business Fixed Investment below Trend
Quarterly data from 1947 to 3rd quarter 2016
($ in billions)$0$1,000$2,000$3,000$4,000201320072001199519891983197719711965195919531947˜˚Non-residential ˜xed investment ˜˚Non-residential ˜xed investment trend Source: Haver; Bureau of Economic Analysis
U.S. Public Gross Fixed Capital Formation as % of GDP
 Source: Haver; Bureau of Economic Analysis
0%1%2%3%4%5%6%7%8%2016201120072003199919951991198719831979197519711967196319591955195119473737And counterintuitively, reducing corporate 
taxes would also 
improve
 wages. One of the 

unintended consequences of high corporate 
taxes is that they actually depress wages in 

the United States. A 2007 Treasury Depart
-
ment review ˜nds that labor ﬁmay bear a 

substantial portion of the burden from the 
corporate income tax.ﬂ A study by Kevin 

Hassett from the American Enterprise 

Institute ˜nds that each $1 increase in U.S. 

corporate income tax collections leads to a $2 
decrease in wages in the short run and a $4 

decrease in aggregate wages in the long run. 

And analysis of the U.S. corporate income tax 

by the Congressional Budget O˚ce ˜nds that 

labor bears more than 70% of the burden of 
the corporate income tax, with the remaining 

30% borne by domestic savers through a 

reduced return on their savings.
 We must ˜x 
this for the bene˜t of American competitive
-
ness and all Americans.
Excessive regulations reduce growth and business 
formation. 
Everyone agrees we should have proper regu
-lation Œ and, of course, good regulations have 

many positive e˛ects. But anyone in business 

understands the damaging e˛ects of over
-complicated and ine˚cient regulations. There 

are many ways to look at regulations, and the 

chart below and the two on page 38 provide 

some insight. The one below shows the total 

pages of federal regulations, which is a simple 

way to illustrate additional reporting and 

compliance requirements. The second records 

how we compare with the rest of the world on 

the ease of starting a new business Œ we used 

to be among the best, and now we are not. 

The bottom chart on page 38 shows that small 

businesses now report that one of their largest 

problems is regulations. 
By some estimates, approximately $2 tril
-lion is spent on regulations annually (which 

is approximately $15,000 per U.S. household 

annually).5 And even if this number is exag
- 5 Crews, Clyde Wayne, Jr. 
(2016). Ten Thousand 
 Commandments Š An 
 Annual Snapshot of the  
Federal Regulatory State
. Source: The National Archives
020,00040,00060,00080,000100,000120,000140,000160,000180,00019
7519
76
19
771978
19
7919
8019
811982
1983
19
8419
8519
861987
19
881989
19
9019
9119
92
19
93
19
9419
9519
96199719
98
19
992000200120022003
2004200520062007
20082009201020112012201320142015Code of Federal Regulation 1975Œ2015
Number of pages3838gerated, it highlights a disturbing problem. 
Particularly troubling is that this may be one 

of the reasons why small business creation 

has slowed alarmingly in recent years. 

According to the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, 

the rising burdens of federal regulations alone 

may be a main reason for a falling pace in 

new business formation. In 1980, Americans 
were creating some 450,000 new companies a 

year. In 2013, they formed 400,000 new busi
-
nesses despite a 40% increase in population 

from 1980 to 2013. Our three-decade slump 

in company formation fell to its lowest point 

with the onset of the Great Recession; even 

with more businesses being established today, 

America™s startup activity remains below pre-

recession levels. 
˜U.S. vs. World    ˜U.S. vs. OECDHarderEasier40%50%60%70%80%90%100%20172016201520142013201220112010200920082007200620050%5%10%15%20%25%30%35%20142010200620021998199419901986˜Taxes    ˜Quality of labor    ˜Poor sales    ˜RegulationSource: Haver; National Federation of Independent Business
Source: World Bank Doing Business; J.P. Morgan Asset Management, October 2016. N = 189
ﬁEase of Starting a New Businessﬂ: In the U.S., Getting Less Easy 
U.S. percentile rank relative to world and OECD
What™s the Largest Problem Facing Small Businesses?
% of respondents, 6-month average
3939While some regulations quite clearly create 
a common good (e.g., clean air and water), 

it is clear that excessive regulation does not 

help productivity, growth of the economy 
 or job creation. And even regulations that 
 once may have made sense may no longer 

be ˜t for the purpose. I am not going to 

outline speci˜c recommendations about 

non-˜nancial regulatory reform here, other 

than to say that we should have a perma
-
nent and systematic review of the costs 

and bene˜ts of regulations, including their 

intended vs. unintended consequences. 
The lack of economic growth and opportunity 
has led to deep and understandable frustration 
among so many Americans. 
Low job growth, a lack of opportunity for 
many, declining wages, students and low-

wage workers being left behind, economic 

and job uncertainty, high healthcare costs 

and growing income inequality all have 
created deep frustration. It is understand-
able why so many are angry at the leaders of 

America™s institutions, including businesses, 

schools and governments Œ they are right to 

expect us to do a better job. Collectively, we 

are the ones responsible. Additionally, this 

can understandably lead to disenchantment 

with trade, globalization and even our free 

enterprise system, which for so many people 

seems not to have worked. 
Our problems are signi˜cant, and they are 
not the singular purview of either political 
party. We need coherent, consistent, compre
-
hensive and coordinated policies that help ˜x 

these problems. The solutions are not binary 

Œ they are not either/or, and they are not 

about Democrats or Republicans. They are 

about facts, analysis, ideas and best practices 

(including what we can learn from others 

around the world).
We need to work together to improve work skills.
I cannot in this letter tackle the complex set 

of issues confronting our inner city schools, 

but I do know that if we don™t 
acknowledge
 
these problems, we will never ˜x them. 

Whether they graduate from high school, 

vocational or training school or go on to 

college, our students can and should be 

adequately prepared for good, decent-paying 

jobs. And whether a student graduates from 

high school, vocational school or training 

school, the graduate should have a sense of 

pride and accomplishment Œ and meaningful 
employment opportunities, without forgoing 

the chance to go to college later on. Career 

and technical education speci˜cally can give 

young people the skills they need for decent-

paying roles in hundreds of ˜elds, including 

aviation, robotics, medical science, welding, 

accounting and coding Œ all jobs that are in 
demand today. 
In New York City, not far from where I grew 

up in Jackson Heights, Queens, there™s a 

school called Aviation High School. Students 

travel from all over the city to go to the school 

(with a 97% student attendance rate), where 

they are trained in many facets of aviation, 

from how to maintain an aircraft to the 

details of the plane™s electronics, hydraulics 

and electrical systems. And when the students 

graduate (93% graduated in the normal four 

years), they get a job, often earning an annual 

starting salary of approximately $60,000. 

It™s a great example of what we should be 

promoting in our educational system. 
Businesses must be involved in this process. 
They need to partner with schools to let 

them know what skills are needed, help 

develop the appropriate curricula, help 

train teachers and be prepared to hire the 

students. In addition, this has to be done 

locally because that is where the actual jobs 
are. Germany does this well. Germany has 
3.
 How can we start investing in our people to help them be more productive and share in the 

opportunities and rewards of our economy?
4040one of the strongest education and training systems in the world, with about 1.5 million 

young people every year participating in 

apprenticeship programs that are paid oppor-tunities to gain in-demand skills along with 

an education. The vocational schools and 

apprenticeship programs work directly with 

local businesses to ensure the students are 
connected to available jobs upon graduation. 

As a result of this market-driven vocational 

training, Germany™s youth unemployment 

rate is also one of the lowest in the world. 

There is nothing wrong with learning from 
other countries. 
Proper skills training also can be used to 
continuously re-educate American workers. 

Many people are afraid that automation is 

taking away jobs. Let™s be clear. Technology 

is the best thing that ever happened to 

mankind, and it is the reason the world is 

getting progressively better. But we should 

acknowledge that though technology helps 

everyone generally, it does cause some job 

loss, dislocation and disruption in speci˜c 

areas. Retraining is the best way to help those 

disrupted by advancements in technology.
We need to help lower skilled workers earn a 
living wage while helping small businesses. 
Business should support an expanded EITC.
There is a tax credit in the United States called the Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC), 

which supplements low-paid workers™ 

incomes. For example, a single mother with 

two children earning $9 an hour (approxi
-
mately $20,000 a year) could get a tax credit 

of more than $5,000 at the end of the year. 

A single man without children could get a 

tax credit under this program of only about $500. This program has ˝aws (which we 

believe could be ˜xed), but it has lifted an 

estimated 9 million people above the poverty 

line. (The federal poverty guideline is deter
-mined by household size. For a four-person 

household, the poverty level is $24,600 or 

approximately $11 an hour.) Last year, the 

EITC program cost the United States about 
$67 billion, and there were 27 million indi
-
viduals who received the credit. 
Approximately 20.6 million American 
workers earn between $7.25 an hour (the 

prevailing federal minimum wage) and 

$10.10 an hour. Approximately 42% of Amer
-ican workers make less than $15 an hour. I 

believe we should dramatically expand the 

EITC to help more low-paid individuals, with 

and without children, earn a living wage. 

I have no doubt that this will entice more 

workers back into the workforce. Jobs bring 

dignity. That ˜rst job is often the ˜rst rung 

on the ladder. And studies show that once 

people start working, they continue working. 

In addition, living wages lead to less crime, 

more household formation and, it is hoped, 

better social outcomes, including more 

marriages and children and better health and 

overall well-being. 
It is important to note that large companies generally pay well above the minimum wage 

and provide health insurance and retire
-
ment bene˜ts to all their employees. They 

also extensively train their employees and 

help them move along in their careers. While 

this would help small businesses far more 

than big businesses, large companies should 

support the expansion of this program 

because it would foster growth and be great 

for lower paid American workers. 
4.
 What should our country be doing to invest in its infrastructure? How does the lack of a plan 
 
and investment hurt our economy?
Infrastructure in America is a very broad and 

complex subject. However, we do have a few 

suggestions on how to make it better.
Similar to companies planning for capacity 
needs, it is quite clear that cities, states and 
the federal government can also plan around 

their somewhat predictable needs for main
-
tenance, new roads and bridges, increasing 

electrical requirements and other necessities 
to serve a growing population. Infrastruc
-
ture should not be a stop-start process but an 
ongoing endeavor whereby intelligent invest
-4141ments are made continuously. And the plan 
could also be sped up if necessary to help a 
weakening economy.
Infrastructure, which could have a life of 
˜ve to 50 years, should not be expensed as 

a government debt but should be accounted 

for as an investment that could be ˜nanced 

separately. Borrowing money for consump
-
tion is completely di˛erent from borrowing 
for something that has value for a long 

period of time. 
It™s important to streamline the approval 

process, and approvals should run simultane
-
ously and not sequentially. 
Last, we need to assure that we have good 
infrastructure and not bridges to nowhere. 

Good infrastructure serving real needs is not 

only conducive to jobs in the short run but 

to growth in the long run. Projects should be 

speci˜cally identi˜ed, with budgets and calen
-
dars and with responsible parties named. 
5.
 How should the U.S. legal and regulatory systems be reformed to incentivize investment 
 
and job creation?
There are many reasons to be proud of our 

system of government. The U.S. Constitution 

is the bedrock of the greatest democracy in 

the world. The checks and balances put in 

place by the framers are still powerful limits 

on each branch™s powers. And this year, we 

witnessed one of the hallmarks of our great 
nation Œ the peaceful transition of power 

following a democratic election.
Our legal system, including our nation™s 
commitment to the rule of law, has long 

been a particular source of strength for our 

economy. When people, communities and 

companies are con˜dent in the stability and 

fairness of a country™s legal system, they want 

to do business in that country and invest 

there (and come from overseas to do so). 

Knowing that you will have access to courts 

for a fair and timely hearing on matters and 

that there are checks against abuses of power 

is important. As the discussion about areas 

for potential reform continues, it is critical 

that these long-term U.S. advantages are kept 

in mind and preserved. 
In regulation, for example, I worry that the 
distribution of power has shifted. Congress, 

through the Administrative Procedures Act 

(APA), set out how regulators should publish 

draft rules. The APA allows for comments 

on draft rules, including comments on how 

a proposed rule will impact lending, jobs 

and the economy. Today, however, agencies 

often regulate through supervisory guidance 
that isn™t subject to the same commentary or checks. The function of interpretive guid
-
ance is to clarify or explain existing law and 

should not be used to impose new, substan
-
tive requirements. Now is a good time to 

discuss how to reset this balance.
There also is an opportunity to have a similar 
conversation around enforcement and litiga
-
tion. On the civil side, we should look closely 

at whether statutory damages provisions 

work as intended. I read recently about 

a settlement under the Fair and Accurate 

Credit Transactions Act in which plainti˛s 

received in excess of $30 million from a 

business that printed credit card receipts 
with the customer™s card expiration date. Is 

that fair and proportionate Œ or is the result 
driven by a statutory damages framework 

that should be reconsidered? And simply because the company agreed to 
the settlement does not mean it was the right 

result. Here is the fact: The current dynamics 

make it very hard for companies to get their 

day in court Œ as the consequences of a loss 

at trial can be disproportionately severe. This 

is particularly true in a government-initiated 

case. The collateral consequences of standing 

up to a regulator or losing at trial can be 
disproportionately negative when compared 

with the underlying issue or proposed settle-
ment, and it can lead to the decision not to 

˜ght at all, no matter what the merits of the 

case may be. The Institute for Legal Reform, 

for the Chamber of Commerce has framed 

this issue as follows:
4242ﬁThe so-called ‚trial penalty™ has virtually 
annihilated the constitutional right to a trial. 
What are the consequences of a system in 
which the government is only rarely required 

to prove its case? What are the implications 

of this on businesses, both large and small? 

Ultimately, what are the long-term prospects 

for entrepreneurship in an environment 

where even the most minor, unintentional 

misstep may result in criminal investigation, 

prosecution and loss of liberty?ﬂWhen you combine this with the fact that 
businesses have no ﬁpenalty-freeﬂ way to 

challenge a new interpretation of the law, the 

net-net result is a system that fosters legislation 

by enforcement actions and settlements. Said 

di˛erently, rather than Congress expanding a 

law or a court testing a novel interpretation, 

regulators and prosecutors make those deci
-
sions and companies acquiesce. 
The impact of these issues is further exacer
-bated by a system that allows for ﬁmultiple 
jeopardy,ﬂ where federal, state, prudential 
and foreign agencies can ﬁpile onﬂ to any 

matter, each seeking its own penalty without 

any mechanism to ensure that the multiple 

punishments are proportionate and fair. It 

would be like getting pulled over by a local 

police o˚cer and getting ˜ned by your local 

town, then by your county, then by your 

state, then by the federal government and 

then having the U.N. weigh in since the car 

was made overseas.
To be clear, we need regulators focused on 
the safety and soundness of all institutions. 

We need enforcement bodies focused on 

compliance with the law. But we also need to 

preserve the system of checks and balances 

Œ when you cannot get your day in court on 

some really important issues, we all su˛er. 
We need to improve and reform our legal 
system because it is having a chilling 

impact on business formation, risk taking 

and entrepreneurship. 
6.
 What price are we paying for the lack of understanding about business and free enterprise?
The United States needs to ensure that we 

maintain a healthy and vibrant economy. 

This is what fuels job creation, raises the 

standard of living for those who are hurting, 

and positions us to invest in education, 

technology and infrastructure in a program
-
matic and sustainable way to build a better 

and safer future for our country and its 

people. America™s military will be the best in 

the world 
only as long as we have the best 

economy in the world. 
Business plays a critical role as an engine of 
economic growth, particularly our largest, 

globally competitive American businesses. 

As an example, the thousand largest compa
-
nies in America (out of approximately 29 

million) employ nearly 30 million people 

in the United States, and almost all of their 

employees get full medical and retirement 

bene˜ts and extensive training. In addition, 
these companies account for more than 30% 
of the roughly $2.3 trillion spent annually on capital expenditures. Capital expendi
-
tures and R&D spending drive productivity 

and innovation, which ultimately drive job 

creation across the entire economy. 
To support this, we need a pro-growth policy 
environment from the government that 

provides a degree of certainty around long-

standing issues that have proved frustrat
-
ingly elusive to solve. The most pressing 

areas in which government, business and 

other stakeholders can ˜nd common ground 

should include tax reform, infrastructure 

investment, education reform, more favor
-able trade agreements and a sensible immi-
gration policy, among others.
When you read that small businesses and big 
businesses are pitted against each other or 

are not good for each other, don™t believe it. 
4343Why are America™s public equity markets so important? 
 How do we sustain them and strengthen corporate governance?
For more than two centuries, the American free enterprise 
system has led to enormous prosperity for our country: the 
creation of jobs, increases in wages and savings, and the 
emergence and growth of dynamic companies. Because well-

managed and well-governed businesses are the engines of our 
economy, good corporate governance must be more than just 
a catchphrase or fad. It™s an imperative Š especially when it 

comes to our publicly owned companies.
The chart on the right should be a cause for concern. It notes 
that the number of public companies in the United States has 

declined 45% since 1996.
There may very well be some logical and good explanations for 
why this is so; e.g., companies can get capital more easily in the 
private markets, and the private markets can be more e˛cient 
than they used to be. 
I suspect there are other less-constructive reasons, which could 
be greatly expanded upon, but I will merely list them below:
 Excessive litigation, including shareholder class action 

lawsuits
Excessive and expensive reporting requirements
 Self-serving shareholder activity and proposals not intended 

to bene˚t the company 
 Shareholder meetings that are hijacked by special interest 

groups and become a complete farce
 Too much short-termism; i.e., quarterly earnings, at the 

expense of making good, long-term investments
 Constant and frequent negative media scrutiny Š some 

deserved and some not
 Boards spending more and more time on check-the-box 

legal and regulatory demands as opposed to the most 
important role of boards Š management, strategy, 
 major risks, etc.
Many private equity companies often stress that it is better to 

be owned by them because they operate with commonsense 

corporate governance; i.e., less check-the-box corporate 
governance Š whether addressing board membership, how a 
board spends its time, management compensation or long-term 

results vs. just quarterly earnings. The following page exhibits a 
letter drafted by a diverse group of ˚nancial leaders that outlines 
recommendations for commonsense corporate governance 

principles that would foster the health of our public companies.
It is hard to estimate the cause and e˝ect of all these factors, 
but they are reasons for concern. America™s public markets have 

been a key to America™s success, and I suspect that years from 
now, we may regret the damage we have done to them. 
43Public Companies Disappearing
 Source: World Bank; World Federation of Exchanges database
01,0002,0003,0004,0005,0006,0007,0008,0009,000201520102005200019951990198519801996: 8,09045% decline2015: 4,381The health of America™s public corporations and ˝nancial markets Š and public trust in both Š is critical to economic growth and a better 
˝nancial future for American workers, retirees and investors. 
Millions of American families depend on these companies for work Š our nearly 5,000 public companies account for a third of the nation™s 
private sector jobs. And these same families and millions more also rely on public companies to help improve their ˝nancial future Š they 

are heavily invested in these companies through mutual funds, 401(k) and pension plans, college savings plans and other accounts to buy a 

home, send their children to college and save for retirement.
Our future depends on these companies being managed e˛ectively for long-term prosperity, which is why the governance of American companies 
is so important to every American. Corporate governance in recent years has often been an area of intense debate among investors, corporate 

leaders and other stakeholders. Yet, too often, that debate has generated more heat than light. 
We represent some of America™s largest corporations, as well as investment managers, that, as ˝duciaries, represent millions of individual savers 
and pension bene˝ciaries. We include corporate CEOs, the head of the Canadian public pension fund and an activist investor, and the heads of a 

number of institutional investors who manage money on behalf of a broad range of Americans.
This diverse group certainly holds varied opinions on corporate governance. But we share the view that constructive dialogue requires ˝nd
-ing common ground Š a starting point to foster the economic growth that bene˝ts shareholders, employees and the economy as a whole. 

To that end, we have worked to ˝nd commonsense principles. We o˛er these principles, which can be found at www.governanceprinciples.

org, in the hope that they will promote further conversation on corporate governance. These principles include the following, among others:
 Truly independent corporate boards are vital to e˛ective governance, so no board should be beholden to the CEO or management. Every 

board should meet regularly without the CEO present, and every board should have active and direct engagement with executives below 

the CEO level;
 Diverse boards make better decisions, so every board should have members with complementary and diverse skills, backgrounds and experi
-
ences. It™s also important to balance wisdom and judgment that accompany experience and tenure with the need for fresh thinking and 

perspectives of new board members;
 Every board needs a strong leader who is independent of management. The board™s independent directors usually are in the best posi
-
tion to evaluate whether the roles of chairman and CEO should be separate or combined; and if the board decides on a combined role, 

it is essential that the board have a strong lead independent director with clearly de˝ned authorities and responsibilities;
 Our ˝nancial markets have become too obsessed with quarterly earnings forecasts. Companies should not feel obligated to provide earnings 

guidance Š and should do so only if they believe that providing such guidance is bene˝cial to shareholders;
 A common accounting standard is critical for corporate transparency, so while companies may use non-Generally Accepted Accounting 

Principles (ﬁGAAPﬂ) to explain and clarify their results, they never should do so in such a way as to obscure GAAP-reported results; and 

in particular, since stock- or options-based compensation is plainly a cost of doing business, it always should be re˚ected in non-GAAP 

measurements of earnings; and
 E˛ective governance requires constructive engagement between a company and its shareholders. So the company™s institutional investors 

making decisions on proxy issues important to long-term value creation should have access to the company, its management and, in some 

circumstances, the board; similarly, a company, its management and board should have access to institutional investors™ ultimate decision 

makers on those issues.
These recommendations are not meant to be absolute. We know that there is signi˝cant variation among our public companies and that their 

approach to corporate governance will inevitably (and appropriately) re˚ect those di˛erences. But we do hope our e˛ort will be the beginning 

of a continuing dialogue that will bene˝t millions of Americans by promoting trust in our nation™s public companies. 
We encourage others to join in that dialogue. Our country, our economy and the future of our citizens depend on getting corporate governance right.
COMMONSENSE CORPORATE
 GOVERNANCE PRINCIPLESMark MachinCPP Investment Board
Larry Fink
BlackRock
Je˛ ImmeltGEMary Erdoes
 J.P. Morgan Asset Management
Tim Armour
 Capital Group
Mary Barra
 General Motors Company
Warren Bu˛ett
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc.
Jamie Dimon JPMorgan Chase
Lowell McAdam
Verizon
Je˛ UbbenValueAct Capital
Brian Rogers
T. Rowe Price
Bill McNabbVanguard
Ronald O™Hanley
State Street Global Advisors
www.governanceprinciples.org
4545Small businesses and large businesses are symbiotic Œ they are substantial customers of 

each other, and they help drive each other™s 

growth Œ and are integral to our large busi-
ness ecosystem. At JPMorgan Chase, for 

example, we support more than 4 million 

small business clients, 15,000 middle market 

companies, and approximately 7,000 corpo
-
rations and investor clients. We also rely on 

services from nearly 30,000 vendors, many 

of which are small and midsized companies. 

Business, taken as a whole, is the source of 

almost all job creation. Approximately 150 million people work 
in the United States; 130 million work in 

private enterprise. We hold in high regard 

the 20 million people who work in govern
-
ment Œ teachers, policemen, ˜remen and 

others. But we could not pay for those jobs 

if the other 130 million were not actively 

producing the GDP of America. 
Something has gone awry in the public™s 

understanding of business and free enter-prise. Whether it is the current environ
-
ment or the de˜ciency of education in 
general, the lack of understanding around 

free enterprise is astounding. When busi
-
nesses or individuals in business do some-
thing wrong (problems that all institutions 
have, including schools, churches, govern
-
ments, small businesses, etc.), they should 

be appropriately punished Œ but not demon-
ized. We need trust and con˜dence in our 

institutions Œ con˜dence is the ﬁsecret sauceﬂ 
that, without spending any money, helps the 

economy grow. A strong and vibrant private 

sector (including big companies) is good for 

the average American. Entrepreneurship 

and free enterprise, with strong ethics and 

high standards, are worth rooting for, not 

attacking.
7.
 Strong collaboration is needed between 

business and government.
We all can agree that a general dissatisfaction 

with the lack of true collaboration and will
-
ingness to address our most pressing policy 
issues has contributed to the existing divisive 

and polarized environment. Certainly there 
is plenty of blame to go around on this front. 
However, rather than looking back, it is 

now more important than ever for the busi
-
ness community and government to come 

together and collaborate to ˜nd meaningful 
solutions and develop thoughtful policies 

that create economic growth and opportunity 
for all. This cannot be done by government 

alone or by business alone. We all must work 

together in ways that put aside our ﬁbusiness-

as-usualﬂ approaches. The lack of economic 

opportunity is a moral and economic crisis 
that a˛ects everyone. There are too many 

people who are not getting a fair chance to 

get ahead and move up the economic ladder. 

This runs contrary to the fundamental idea that America is a country where everyone 

has an opportunity to improve their lives 

and that future generations of Americans 

know they can be just as successful as those 

who came before them. 
By working together and applying some 
good old American can-do ingenuity, there is 

nothing that we can™t accomplish. By working 

together, the business community, govern
-
ment and the nonpro˜t sector can ensure 

and maintain a healthy and vibrant economy 

today and into the future, creating jobs, 

fostering economic mobility and maintaining 

sustainable economic growth. Ultimately, this 

translates to an improved quality of life and 

greater ˜nancial security for those who are 

struggling to make ends meet. It also would 

be a signi˜cant step in restoring public faith 

in two of our greatest democratic institutions 

Œ U.S. business and government Œ and would 

allow us to move forward toward a pros
-
perous future for all Americans. 
